The Open
Contents
General Information
1.01 – The Open
1.02 – Athletes
1.03 – Drug Testing

Registration
1.04 – Open Registration
1.05 – Terms and Waivers
1.06 – CrossFit Account
1.07 – Gender Classification Policy
1.08 – Region Selection [NEW]
1.09 – Uncommon Situations[NEW]
1.10 – Divisions [NEW]
1.11 – Affiliate Teams in the Open
1.12 – Open Registration – Affiliate Teams
1.13 – Team Eligibility Requirements
1.14 – Affiliates With More Than One Team
1.15 – The Open – Registration Terms and Conditions (All Athletes)

Workouts
1.16 – Format
1.17 – Judging
1.18 – Uncommon Movement Clause / Range of Motion Exceptions
1.19 – Score Submission and Validation
1.20 – Validating Workouts at an Affiliate (Non-Video Submissions)
1.21 – Validating Video Submissions [NEW]
1.22 – Video Submissions – Scoring Protocol[NEW]
1.23 – Appeals [NEW]

Leaderboard
1.24 – Ranking
1.25 – Submitted Scores[NEW]
1.26 – Worldwide Leaderboard[NEW]
1.27 – Region Leaderboards[NEW]
1.28 – Scaled and Foundations
1.29 – Age-Group Divisions
1.30 – Teams

Advancement and Prizes
1.31 – Competition Levels[NEW]
1.32 – Open Judging Requirements for Semifinal Qualifiers[NEW]
1.33 – Prizes [NEW]

[NEW] indicates there are updates to this particular section.

1.01 – THE OPEN
The Open is the first stage of the CrossFit Games season. It includes a series of workouts, with one or more workouts released each week over consecutive weeks. The Open workouts are released on the official CrossFit Games website. Athlete performances in each workout are judged, validated, and ranked on the CrossFit Games Leaderboard.

To be eligible to qualify for the CrossFit Games:

Individual athletes MUST place within the top 1% of Open participants in their division (or a minimum of 1,200 athletes, whichever is greater).
Age-Group athletes MUST place within the top 2% of Open participants in their division (or a minimum of 200 athletes, whichever is greater).
Each week’s workout(s) will be released on Thursday at 12 p.m. (noon) Pacific Time (PT). Athletes will have until the following Monday at 5 p.m. PT to complete the workout(s) and submit their score(s). Once the score submission window closes at 5 p.m. PT on Monday, athletes will not be able to adjust or resubmit a score for that week’s workout(s).

Precise start and end dates for the Open will be announced on the CrossFit Games website. The 2025 CrossFit Games Open will commence at 12 p.m. (noon) PT on Thursday, Feb. 27, 2025. Subsequent workouts will continue to be released on Thursdays at 12 p.m. (noon) PT until the competition is complete. The 2025 Open will close on Monday, March 17, 2025, at 5 p.m. PT.

*See section 1.08 for qualifications for a recognized region.

1.02 – ATHLETES
Any athlete meeting CrossFit’s age and eligibility requirements may register to compete in the Open. Any athlete wishing to submit a score for all three weeks of the Open must complete registration in time to be eligible to compete in the first Open workout of the season.

CrossFit reserves the exclusive right to allow or deny the participation of any athlete. CrossFit also reserves the exclusive right to validate or invalidate any athlete’s scores submitted for the purpose of qualifying for the Games. CrossFit will make such participation and scoring decisions to preserve the integrity of the competition.

CrossFit reserves the exclusive right to invite past winners, guest athletes, teams, or others to participate in any stage of the competition. This decision may be made to preserve the tradition and spirit of the CrossFit Games or for any other reason at the sole discretion of CrossFit.

1.03 – DRUG TESTING
The Drug Testing Policy applies to all athletes entered in CrossFit Games events, including the Open. See the Drug Testing section at the bottom of this Rulebook.

1.04 – OPEN REGISTRATION
Every competing athlete must register online at games.crossfit.com/register/open.

To successfully complete the Open registration process, athletes must submit the required fee. Open registration is US$20 for all athletes (including individual and age-group divisions). All payments are final. No refunds or transfers will be permitted for any reason.

1.05 – OPEN REGISTRATION – TERMS AND WAIVERS
As part of the registration process and for all facets of the CrossFit Games, athletes must agree and select a checkbox, without limitation, to comply with the rules and guidelines stipulated in the CrossFit Games Rulebook, the Assumption of Risk Waiver, Publicity Release Waiver, and the CrossFit Games Drug Testing Policy. All competitors are subject to drug testing at any time, including during the Open. The athlete’s agreement to abide by the rules and requirements of the Drug Testing Policy remains in force for one calendar year from the close of the first Open workout and until the athlete completes a new registration for the Open (at which time this new agreement will be in force).

1.06 – OPEN REGISTRATION – CROSSFIT ACCOUNT
Each athlete must have a CrossFit account to compete in the Open. Athletes only need to create a CrossFit account once. Athletes will use the same CrossFit account each year for all competitions. Athletes will use their account for registering, submitting scores, tracking workout submission and validation deadlines, and reviewing their score submission history. It is the athlete’s sole responsibility to provide current, valid, and truthful information when creating an account, including date of birth, gender (see the Gender Classification Policy section), and email address. Any athlete with questions or concerns about creating an account, or accessing a previously created account, should review the Help Center (https://crossfit.my.site.com/Support/s/games). Athletes should not create duplicate accounts.

Age requirements – Athletes must be at least 13 years old at the time they create an account on the CrossFit Games website and must be 14 years old as of July 14, 2025.

1.07 – OPEN REGISTRATION – GENDER CLASSIFICATION POLICY
The CrossFit Gender Classification Policy applies to all athletes entered in CrossFit Games events, including the Open. See the Gender Classification Policy at the end of the Rulebook for more detailed information.

1.08 – OPEN REGISTRATION – REGION SELECTION [NEW]
Regions will have no bearing on the competition but will serve as a filter on the leaderboard. During the registration process, athletes will provide information to establish their region for the Open. Athletes will remain assigned to this region throughout the season.

Residency at the close of the first Open score submission window will be used to determine an athlete’s region. Once the close of the first Open score submission window has passed, athletes will no longer be able to edit their residency.

CrossFit recognizes the following regional boundaries:

North America East
North America West
Europe
Oceania
Asia
South America
Africa
A list of the countries, states, and territories that are part of each region is available in Appendix C.

1.09 – OPEN REGISTRATION – REGION SELECTION – UNCOMMON SITUATIONS [NEW]
For certain individuals, selecting a country/region may involve additional considerations. The guidelines below address some uncommon situations for selecting an athlete’s region.

Military personnel (active duty and reserve in all branches) will register in the region of their Permanent Duty Station/Permanent Change of Station (PCS) as listed on their current orders. Those on temporary deployment (TDY orders) will register in the region of their permanent duty station.
Frequent travelers should register in the region where they currently make their home. This is the dwelling to which they regularly return following their travel, where they live when not “on the road.”
College students will register using the address where they live, whether on campus or off campus, while attending classes. School breaks or travel during the Open will not change the student’s region.
For the 2025 season, there is no process to petition to switch regions. Competition regions will have no bearing on the competition but will serve as a filter on the leaderboard. Any questions concerning country selection, please review the Help Center (https://crossfit.my.site.com/Support/s/games) prior to the Week 1 score submission deadline (March 3, 2025, 5 p.m. Pacific Time).

1.10 – OPEN REGISTRATION – DIVISIONS [NEW]
An athlete’s competitive division will automatically be assigned based on birthdate* and gender. The athlete’s age as of July 14, 2025, will determine which division the athlete will compete in during the 2025 season. There are 22 total divisions for individual competitors and there is one division for teams:

INDIVIDUALS:

Men and Women
AGE-GROUP:

Boys and Girls 14-15 (Born on or between July 15, 2009 and July 14, 2011)
Boys and Girls 16-17 (Born on or between July 15, 2007 and July 14, 2009)
Men and Women 35-39 (Born on or between July 15, 1985 and July 14, 1990)
Men and Women 40-44 (Born on or between July 15, 1980 and July 14, 1985)
Men and Women 45-49 (Born on or between July 15, 1975 and July 14, 1980)
Men and Women 50-54 (Born on or between July 15, 1970 and July 14, 1975)
Men and Women 55-59 (Born on or between July 15, 1965 and July 14, 1970)
Men and Women 60-64 (Born on or between July 15, 1960 and July 14, 1965)
Men and Women 65-69 (Born on or between July 15, 1955 and July 14, 1960)
Men and Women 70+ (Born on or before July 14, 1955)
TEAM:

Team
*To ensure fair competition and athlete safety, the following policy is in effect regarding age falsification in CrossFit Games events:

Any athlete found to have misrepresented their birthdate to qualify for an age category outside their true age group will be subject to a one-year ban from registering for any CrossFit event.
Parents or guardians who assist a minor athlete in falsifying a minor’s birth date will also be prohibited from registering for any CrossFit Games events for a period of one year.
1.11 – AFFILIATE TEAMS IN THE OPEN
Any licensed CrossFit affiliate gym in good standing with CrossFit may register a team, or multiple teams, for the team competition. Teams will consist of at least two individual men and two individual women who validly register for the Open. “Individual” athletes are athletes between the ages of 16-54 who do the same variations of the workouts. Athletes may only compete for one affiliate during each CrossFit Games season.

1.12 – OPEN REGISTRATION – AFFILIATE TEAMS
Any athlete wishing to register a team or compete as part of a team must first register as an individual athlete. The athlete who registers the team will be designated as the team manager for the competition season. Team managers will create a team, pay the registration fee, and select athletes to join the team through their CrossFit Account Competition Dashboard. Athletes can also join their affiliate’s team from their own Competition Dashboard.

Only athletes who train at a licensed CrossFit affiliate gym in good standing are eligible to register a team.

The fee for registering a team is US$1 worldwide.

As part of team registration, the team manager will select a team name which will be carried with them through the season up until the CrossFit Games. Team names will consist of the official affiliate name + an optional descriptor. Teams may not use a sponsor name or any form of a sponsor name as part of their official team name. Upon registering, teams may be asked to select a new team name if the team’s proposed name violates the policy.

To compete for a team during the Open, Semifinals, or the Games, athletes must be registered and listed on the team roster prior to the close of the first Open workout. Once the first Open workout has closed and an athlete has been assigned to a team roster, this athlete may not compete for any other affiliate during the course of the season. It is the responsibility of the team manager to ensure team athletes are properly registered.

It is the responsibility of the team manager to ensure the team is using only eligible athletes. If a team uses an ineligible athlete, the team may be disqualified from competition, and, subject to the discretion of CrossFit, some or all athletes on the team may be prohibited from competing as individual athletes in future competitions.

1.13 – TEAM ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
Only licensed CrossFit affiliate gyms in good standing may register a team.

The requirements for being on a team, without exception, are:

Each athlete must be registered on the affiliate’s team roster by March 3, 2025, 5 p.m. PT.
Each athlete must submit a score for all of the Open workouts.
Each Open workout must be performed in the same physical location as the team’s affiliate.
At any time during the CrossFit Games season, CrossFit may require athletes to produce documentation proving they have met the team requirements. To verify an athlete’s eligibility, teams must be able to provide video evidence that includes:

Each team member’s performance of their submitted score of all of the Open workouts at their team’s affiliate; and
An on-screen verification of the date and time the workout was completed, such as time.is.
If a request for verification is made, CrossFit will provide details as to when the documentation will need to be provided. If athletes cannot prove they meet the requirements, the team and/or individual athlete may be subject to disqualification.

Any athlete requiring assistance to determine their eligibility for a team should contact support@crossfitgames.com prior to joining the team.

1.14 – AFFILIATES WITH MORE THAN ONE TEAM
More than one team may come from a CrossFit affiliate gym as long as all members of each team meet the eligibility requirements stated in section 1.13.

1.15 – THE OPEN – REGISTRATION TERMS AND CONDITIONS (ALL ATHLETES)
CrossFit is not responsible for any inaccurate entry information, whether caused by website users or any of the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in the CrossFit Games. CrossFit assumes no responsibility for any error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, or delay in operation or transmission of any website related to the CrossFit Games, or for communications line failure, or for theft or destruction, tampering, or unauthorized access to entries, registration, participation, and/or entry information. CrossFit is not responsible for any problems or technical, hardware, or software malfunctions of any telephone network or telephone lines, failed, incorrect, inaccurate, incomplete, garbled, or delayed electronic communications, whether caused by the sender or by any of the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in the CrossFit Games, computer online systems, servers or providers, computer equipment, software, failure of any email, submission, or entry to be received by CrossFit due to technical problems, human error or traffic congestion, unavailable network connections on the internet or any website, or any combination thereof, including any injury or damage to a participant’s or any other person’s computer relating to or resulting from participating in the CrossFit Games or downloading any materials related to the CrossFit Games.

CrossFit may disqualify any individual it finds to be tampering with the entry, registration, or submission process, or the operation of the CrossFit Games or the website, or any website related to the CrossFit Games; to be acting in violation of the official rules; or to be acting in an unsportsmanlike or disruptive manner, or with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten, or harass any other person. Any use of robotic, macro, automatic, programmed, or other such entry methods will void all such entries by such methods. In the event of a dispute as to entries submitted by multiple users having the same identifying information, CrossFit reserves the right to determine, at its sole discretion, the correct submission in accordance with the rules.

If, for any reason, the CrossFit Games are not able to run as planned by reason of infection by computer virus, bugs, worms, tampering, unauthorized intervention, fraud, technical failures, or any other causes beyond the control of CrossFit, which, in the sole opinion of CrossFit, are corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity, or proper conduct of the CrossFit Games, CrossFit reserves the right to void suspect registrations or submissions and/or to cancel, terminate, modify, or suspend the CrossFit Games and select the winner from among all eligible, non-suspect registrations or submissions received prior to cancellation, termination, or suspension. CrossFit has no obligation to operate or produce the CrossFit Games (or any part thereof), and there is no obligation to broadcast the CrossFit Games, even if the CrossFit Games take place. In the event that the CrossFit Games competition is canceled, CrossFit (or any party) has no obligation to award any prize money. All decisions by CrossFit concerning eligibility, qualifying for, and judging related to the CrossFit Games are final and not subject to challenge or appeal. Any materials submitted as part of the qualification or registration process for the CrossFit Games are governed by CrossFit’s Privacy Policy.

Under no circumstances will CrossFit be responsible or liable for any damages or losses of any kind, including direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, or punitive damages arising out of access to and use of the CrossFit Games website or the downloading from and/or printing of material downloaded from said site.

1.16 – OPEN WORKOUTS – FORMAT
For all Open workouts, the workout format will be released by CrossFit and communicated uniformly to all athletes online.

The workout format will include the following:

Required movement(s).
Start and end ranges of the movement(s).
Required number of repetitions and/or repetition scheme.
Required floor plan, if any.
Required equipment.
Required amount of weight (NOTE: All weights will be released in pounds. It is the athlete’s responsibility to use the correct poundage. If kilogram plates are used, the athlete will need to use appropriate combinations of plates to achieve the correct poundage. Collars or clips are not to be counted in the total weight). See Appendix D for more information.
Time domain or time limit.
Scoring details – Competitions may determine the winner by highest point total or lowest point total, or any method or combination of methods CrossFit selects. Point values for finishing position will be released before the start of the event.
Adjustments or scaling by division, if any.
Filming and submission guidelines, if any.
In all stages of CrossFit Games competition, it is the athlete’s responsibility to adhere to the workout format. This includes performing all required movements to the described standard; counting and completing all required repetitions; using the required equipment, loads, and floor plans; meeting the time requirements; and meeting all submission and video standards.

Modifying the workout format in any way is prohibited and will void an athlete’s score. Only CrossFit may provide official scaled versions of workouts for athletes to perform.

1.17 – OPEN WORKOUTS – JUDGING
Judging and validation are required to make any CrossFit Games workout result official. Judges are responsible for enforcing movement and workout standards and for confirming the athlete’s score. Athletes will be asked to submit their judge’s name on the score submission page.

For the Open competition, judges may perform their duties at an affiliate by judging and confirming scores (i.e., signing the athlete’s scorecard). Alternatively, judges are encouraged to watch workouts online to review and score video submissions posted on the CrossFit Games leaderboard. The results of videos reviewed by public judges may be combined with video reviews performed by the CrossFit Games internal review team.

To develop, refine, or refresh judging skills prior to the Open, individuals are encouraged to complete the Judges Course and/or the Advanced Judges Course, available online at https://www.crossfit.com/eductation/explore-courses. Completion of the current year’s Judges Course is also required for all CrossFit Games Affiliate Managers. Passing the current year’s version of the Judges Course is a prerequisite for someone judging athletes participating in Semifinals and the CrossFit Games.

1.18 – OPEN WORKOUTS – UNCOMMON MOVEMENT CLAUSE/RANGE OF MOTION EXCEPTIONS
Any violation of the prescribed workout format, including the movement standards and range of motion, will result in the repetition(s) being disallowed. Therefore, athletes and judges should be familiar with the Uncommon Movement Clause:

Any movement deemed uncommon or out of the ordinary, or used to amend, shorten, or change the accepted movement standard or range of motion, including line of action, of any workout movement can and will be disallowed.

If an athlete is unable to meet the specific range of motion required for an Rx’d movement, they are not permitted to substitute another movement or utilize outside tools/assistance to reach the Rx’d range of motion. In this instance, an athlete should consider submitting the score in the scaled or foundations tier.

1.19 – OPEN WORKOUTS – SCORE SUBMISSION AND VALIDATION
Scores must be submitted by Monday at 5 p.m. PT each week. Any score submission received after the 5 p.m. PT deadline will not be accepted for any reason.

Athletes must have their scores confirmed by either:

Performing the workout at a validly licensed CrossFit affiliate gym in good standing and receiving validation from the affiliate manager; or
Uploading a working YouTube* link of their workout to the CrossFit Games website.
It is the sole responsibility of the athlete to ensure the timely and successful submission of workout scores or videos each week. Submissions that are incomplete (missing information such as the complete score, the affiliate name, or the judge’s name; or containing video links that do not work, etc.) will not be accepted. Each week, scores must be submitted by Monday at 5 p.m. PT.

Note: CrossFit reserves the right to extend the score submission deadline due to unforeseen circumstances. If the deadline is extended, athletes are permitted to complete or redo the lifts or workouts within the new time frame provided.

Video submissions may be reviewed by the CrossFit Games internal review team.

*All YouTube videos must follow these guidelines:

The video must be original content created by the athlete.
The athlete must own all rights to (or have permission to use) the content of the video, including any music used.
The video must be uploaded to YouTube and set to “public.”
Video must comply with YouTube’s Community Guidelines and Terms of Service.
By submitting the video, the athlete grants CrossFit, LLC a worldwide, royalty-free, perpetual license to use, reproduce, distribute, and display the video for the purposes of scoring the Open and any related promotions.
The athlete agrees to indemnify and hold harmless CrossFit, LLC from any claims, damages, or liabilities brought by third parties arising from the athlete’s video submission.
1.20 – OPEN WORKOUTS – VALIDATING WORKOUTS AT AN AFFILIATE (NON-VIDEO SUBMISSIONS)
Athletes who perform an Open workout at a licensed CrossFit affiliate in good standing with CrossFit are not required to submit a video for that score. Once a non-video score has been submitted, it may be rejected by the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager from the affiliate where the workout was performed.

CrossFit Games Affiliate Managers have from the start of an Open workout score submission window up until 48 hours following the close of an Open workout to reject scores. If no action is taken by the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager, scores submitted will be validated Wednesday at 5 p.m. PT.

It is the responsibility of the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager to ensure correct scores are submitted.

Any affiliate wishing to participate in the Open will need to have a CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager assigned to it. The Licensee of Record (LOR) of an affiliate may not necessarily be automatically assigned as the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager. If they are the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager, they will need to complete the 2025 Judges Course. If the LOR wishes to delegate the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager role to someone else, they may do so by having them complete the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager registration. Affiliates with multiple locations will have a different CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager assigned to each location. There can be only one CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager per affiliate. It is not possible for an athlete to manage multiple affiliates or manage one affiliate and compete under a different affiliate. These details must be kept in mind when assigning a CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager.

Affiliate managers must pass the 2025 online Judges Course, commit to upholding the standards and ethics of the CrossFit Games, and assert they have the equipment, facility, and judges to administer the Open workouts.
CrossFit Games Affiliate Managers may reject scores for any athlete who performs​ an Open​ workout​ at their affiliate. Affiliates caught violating the validation rules will lose their ability to reject scores for the remainder of the season and risk potential sanctions for future seasons.

1.21 – OPEN WORKOUTS – VALIDATING VIDEO SUBMISSIONS [NEW]
Athletes’ alternative to performing an Open workout at an affiliate is to upload a video of their performance of the Open workout to the CrossFit Games website through their CrossFit account. The video must be submitted via a publicly viewable YouTube video. Score validation for any online video submission is the sole right of CrossFit. The video may be reviewed and scored by the CrossFit Games internal review team. As part of this video review process, the athlete’s posted score may be accepted, modified, or invalidated. See section 1.22 for more information on the possible outcomes of a video submission.

Reasons for modification of a score include but are not limited to:

Failure to follow the video submission guidelines, including recording movements from angles, distances, or with lighting effects that do not allow judges to assess whether the movement standards are being met. (Note: Due to the visual distortion they create, fisheye lenses are not to be used in the filming of video submissions.)
The view of the athlete is obstructed while they are performing work.
Violation of the workout format, including movement standards.
Workout attire that prevents the judge from determining whether the athlete is meeting the movement standards.
Miscounting repetitions.
Video submissions may be invalidated or adjusted without warning and after the close of a competition. Athletes submitting videos should have someone monitor their movement during the workout to ensure each repetition meets the required standards. Prior to submitting a video, athletes should review the video to ensure their reps meet the required standards; the camera angle, distance, and lighting permit the judge to determine whether the movement standards are being met; and there are no technical problems with the video itself.

1.22 – OPEN WORKOUTS – VIDEO SUBMISSIONS – SCORING PROTOCOL [NEW]
There are four possible outcomes that may be applied by the CrossFit Games internal review team in the judging and scoring of online video submissions:

Good Video: The athlete meets the required movement standards and the score posted is correct. The score will be accepted.
Valid With Penalty: The athlete did NOT meet the required standards and the score posted has been adjusted to reflect the penalty.
Zero (0) Score: Over the course of the video, if the athlete fails to complete the workout as required, or they complete the wrong movements, CrossFit reserves the right to adjust their score to 0. If the athlete receives a 0 score, the rest of their score submissions for the competition will remain on the leaderboard.
Invalid: CrossFit reserves the right to invalidate a score submission if it is determined that the athlete is acting with malicious intent to manipulate the workout to gain an unfair advantage. If an athlete’s score is invalidated, all of their scores for the competition will be removed from the leaderboard.
Note: A score adjustment occurs when an athlete’s score needs to be modified based on miscounted reps, no reps, or a combination of the two. A score adjustment may stand alone or be applied in conjunction with a result from a penalty as described above.

*CrossFit will apply time penalties based on the movements and/or circumstances in any given workout. Time penalties may vary by movement and context, and CrossFit reserves the right to update time penalties for movements based on the specifics of the overall workout.

1.23 – OPEN WORKOUTS – APPEALS [NEW]
Should an athlete receive a penalty, appeals, scoring discrepancies, or questions about the judging or scoring of online videos will be handled through the link provided in the penalty notification email.

An athlete submitting a video for review will receive an email message from CrossFit if the score posted with the video is modified. The message will give a brief description explaining the reason for the change in score.

Any athlete who disagrees with their score modification must follow the appeals link provided within 24 hours of receiving a notification their score has been modified.

CrossFit will review the athlete’s appeal and the video in question to render a final scoring decision. This decision will be communicated to the athlete via email.

Only the penalized athlete may appeal a result. Coaches or unrelated parties may not appeal on behalf of the affected athlete.

1.24 – CROSSFIT GAMES LEADERBOARD – RANKING
The CrossFit Games website will host the only official leaderboard for the Open. Athletes will be ranked on the CrossFit Games leaderboard based on their performance relative to other athletes in their division.

During the Open, athletes are ranked on the leaderboard based on their total placement in all workouts. For example, an athlete with second-place, third-place and fifth-place finishes will have 10 total points (2+3+5=10) and be ranked ahead of an athlete with first-place, second-place and 10th-place finishes, who would have 13 points (1+2+10=13).

Ties on the overall leaderboard will be broken by awarding the best position to the athlete who has the highest result in any single workout. If athletes remain tied after this first tiebreaker, the process continues to their next-highest single result, and so forth. Ties will not be broken for single workout results. More than one athlete can share a workout rank, and each will earn the original point value. The athlete with the top performance across multiple workouts in a competition wins that competition.

Official Open rankings may be used by outside competitions (sanctioned, licensed, or non-licensed) for their qualification purposes.

1.25 – CROSSFIT GAMES LEADERBOARD – SUBMITTED SCORES [NEW]
Once an athlete has submitted a score for a workout, their score will appear on the CrossFit Games leaderboard.

Scores submitted to affiliates are automatically valid on the leaderboard and may be rejected by the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager if it was submitted incorrectly. CrossFit Games Affiliate Managers will only have the ability to reject scores up until Wednesday at 5 p.m. PT.

If an athlete elects to use video submission for score validation, the entered score will appear on the leaderboard with the YouTube video linked to the score once the video is submitted. Scores posted by video submission may be validated, invalidated, or modified through the assessment of a penalty. Furthermore, scores may be removed at any time at the discretion of CrossFit. Common reasons for adjustment and/or removal of scores include unacceptable movement standards, improper rep counts, or a poor-quality video submission.

Top scores from individual men, women, and age-group athletes who submit a video of a performance will be prioritized during the review process.

Athletes must have a valid score (greater than 0) for every Open workout in order to receive a competition level and be eligible to compete in the community cup later in the season. See Section 4 for more information.

In every division, if a registered athlete fails to submit a score for any reason (e.g., skips a workout, has a workout invalidated, cannot complete the stated minimum score, or cannot complete a single repetition), that athlete will receive a score of “0” for that workout and will be ranked below all athletes who post a score (whether as prescribed, scaled or foundations) for that workout. Athletes receiving a “0” score will maintain an overall rank on the CrossFit Games leaderboard, however, they will not receive a level at the end of the competition.

1.26 – CROSSFIT GAMES LEADERBOARD – WORLDWIDE LEADERBOARD [NEW]
The default leaderboard on the CrossFit Games website will be the worldwide leaderboard. Athletes on this leaderboard are ranking amongst ALL participants worldwide in their division. Ranking on this leaderboard will be used to determine an athlete’s level, advancement to the Semifinal stage, and/or their eligibility to advance to the Games via an in-person qualifying event.

There is a worldwide leaderboard for Individual Men, Individual Women, all age-group divisions, and Teams.

1.27 – CROSSFIT GAMES LEADERBOARD – REGION LEADERBOARDS [NEW]
After Open registration, athletes also will be placed on their respective regional leaderboard. These leaderboards are based primarily on an athlete’s residency. See Section 1.08 for more details on regions.

Region leaderboards are simply a leaderboard filter. Advancement to the next stage of the season is not based on region leaderboard rankings.

1.28 – CROSSFIT GAMES LEADERBOARD – SCALED AND FOUNDATIONS
The prescribed (Rx’d) Open workouts released for each applicable division (i.e., individual Men and Women and all age-group divisions) may be accompanied by scaled or foundations versions. Athletes who are unable to perform a workout as prescribed may choose the scaled or foundations version provided. Athletes may also finish the Open by completing any combination of workouts (prescribed, scaled, or foundations).

Athletes who choose to perform a scaled workout will be ranked relative to all other athletes performing the scaled version of the workout but below all athletes who performed that workout as prescribed. If an athlete chooses to perform the foundations version of the workout, they will be ranked relative to all other athletes performing the foundations version of the workout but below all athletes who performed that workout as scaled and as prescribed.

Any athlete who fails to submit a score will receive a score of “0” and will be ranked below all athletes who entered a score, whether it was the prescribed, scaled, or foundations version for that workout. Any athlete who fails to submit a score for any Open workout will not be given a level and will not be eligible to participate in the Community Cup.

The CrossFit Games hosts a scaled leaderboard. To remain on the scaled leaderboard, an athlete must perform only scaled or foundations versions of the Open workouts.

The CrossFit Games also hosts a foundations-only leaderboard. To remain on the foundations-only leaderboard, an athlete must perform only foundations versions of the Open workouts.

1.29 – CROSSFIT GAMES LEADERBOARD – AGE-GROUP DIVISIONS
Athletes 14-17 and 35+ years of age who register for the Open will compete in one of 10 age-group divisions based on their age as of the cutoff dates listed in Section 1.10.

Athletes in the age-group divisions will be ranked on their own leaderboard based on their performance in the age-group workouts. For each age-group workout released in the Open, scaled versions of the prescribed workout may be provided. Any athlete performing a scaled version of the workout will be ranked on the leaderboard below all other athletes performing the prescribed version of the workout for that division.

Age-group athletes must have a valid score for every Open workout in order to receive a competition level and be eligible to compete in the Community Cup later in the season. See Section 4 for more information.

Any age-group athlete who fails to submit a score for a workout will receive a score of “0” and be ranked below all athletes who entered a score, whether it was for the prescribed, scaled, or foundations version of that workout.

For teenagers in the 16-17 division and masters athletes in the 35-54 age divisions, the prescribed workouts will be the same as the prescribed workouts for the individual divisions. Age-group athletes who perform these prescribed workouts will be ranked relative to individual athletes on the overall CrossFit Open leaderboard as well as relative to other athletes in their age division on the age-group leaderboards.

The top masters and teenage athletes in each age division will have the opportunity to advance to the Age-Group Semifinal.

1.30 – CROSSFIT GAMES LEADERBOARD – TEAMS
Team scores will appear on the leaderboard as members of the team post scores.

Team scores will ultimately be the aggregate of the top two men’s performances and top two women’s performances posted by team members in the prescribed version of a particular Open workout.

For most workout formats, teams will be ranked based on total reps completed or total aggregate time. For these workouts, ties between teams on the leaderboard will not be broken for single workout results. More than one team can share a workout rank, and each team will earn the original point value.

Team ties on the overall leaderboard will be broken by awarding the best position to the team that has the highest result in any single workout. If teams remain tied after this first tiebreaker, the process continues to their next-highest single result, and so forth, until the tie is broken.

Workouts that challenge athletes to complete a stated amount of work as fast as possible (task-priority workouts) and also have a time cap may result in teams being ranked based on total time or total reps. For these workouts, teams will be ranked in the following manner:

If all four teammates complete the workout, the team’s score will be its total aggregate time. In this instance, ties between teams in this workout will not be broken, teams may share a workout rank, and each team will earn the original point value.
If one or more team athletes fail to complete the workout (are time-capped), the team’s score will be its total reps completed. The team will be ranked below any team whose score is a valid time and above any team that completes fewer reps. If teams ranked by total reps are tied in this workout, the higher rank will be awarded to the team with the fastest (lowest) aggregate time. For team athletes who are capped in the workout, the time cap will be used as the time they contribute to the team’s aggregate time.
If a registered team member receives a score of “0” for a workout (e.g., skips a workout, has a workout invalidated, cannot complete the stated minimum work requirement, or cannot complete a single repetition), the athlete may still contribute to the team’s score for the remaining Open workouts. If this athlete contributed to previous team scores, those scores will remain valid. For example, if a team member receives a score of “0” in 25.1 and 25.2 but submits a score for 25.3, the athlete’s 25.3 score may contribute to the team’s 25.3 score. A score of “0” is not considered a valid score when assessing an athlete’s eligibility to advance with a team to Semifinals or the Games. Therefore, an athlete who receives a score of “0” in any Open workout is not eligible to compete on a team during Semifinals or the Games.

1.31 – COMPETITION LEVELS [NEW]
Following the close of the Open, all athletes who submit scores for every workout will automatically receive a level based on their overall performance on the worldwide leaderboard. Athletes MUST submit a score for every workout to receive a level. Level rankings are based on a percentage of athletes who submit all scores. There are 10 levels:

Level:	Open rank percentile:
Level 10	99-100%
Level 9	88-98%
Level 8	77-87%
Level 7	66-76%
Level 6	55-65%
Level 5	44-54%
Level 4	33-43%
Level 3	22-32%
Level 2	11-21%
Level 1	0-10%
Levels will be displayed on each athlete’s profile. Dual-division athletes (age-group athletes 16-17 and 35-54) will be awarded two levels: one within the Individual division and one within their respective age division.

Teenage athletes in the 14-15-year-old division and Masters athletes 55+ will be awarded one level for their age-group only.

There are no levels for teams.

All athletes who receive a level (submit scores for all Open workouts) will be eligible to participate in the Community Cup and compete solely amongst athletes of a similar level.

1.32 – OPEN JUDGING REQUIREMENTS FOR SEMIFINALS QUALIFIERS [NEW]
Any athlete who wishes to qualify for Semifinals is encouraged to use a registered judge (that is, a judge who has passed the 2025 Online Judges Course) during the Open workouts.

1.33 – OPEN – PRIZES [NEW]
A percentage of each Open registration fee will be used to fund the prize purse for each stage of competition (the season).

During the Open Individual athletes will be awarded prizes for:

Weekly individual winners:

First-place man, first-place woman
Second-place man, second-place woman
Third-place man, third-place woman
Overall individual winners:

First-place man, first-place woman
Second-place man, second-place woman
Third-place man, third-place woman
The value of each INDIVIDUAL prize will increase as Open registration increases. Exact prize values will be determined at the close of Open registration (Monday, March 17, at 5 p.m. PT)

To claim this prize, athletes must submit a video of the workout to CrossFit before the announced deadline, even if the workout was completed at an affiliate with a registered judge. (Note: Top athletes are advised to record and retain videos of all their Open performances, as these may be required by CrossFit.)

During the Open, CrossFit affiliates will be awarded prizes based on:

Performance:

The top performing affiliate teams in each competition region (see Section 1.08 for competition regions and Section 1.30 for team scoring in the Open)
Participation:

The highest number of registered participants in each competition region.
The total number of AFFILIATE winning placements will increase as Open registration increases. The exact number of winning placements in each category and competition region will be determined at the close of Open registration (Monday, March 17, at 5 p.m. PT). Each eligible AFFILIATE in a winning placement will receive a US$2,500 Rogue gift card.

Affiliates may only win one prize.

If an affiliate is in winning placement for a performance prize AND a participation prize, they will maintain the performance prize. In the participation category their placement will be skipped over and awarded to the next in line in their competition region.
If an affiliate has multiple teams in winning placements in the performance category, the top-placing team will win the prize for the affiliate. The affiliate’s other teams in winning placement will be skipped over and awarded to the next in line in their region.
Winning affiliates may be subject to a member audit to ensure registration accuracy.
All prizes will be outlined in a prize affidavit. Regardless of whether such a prize is cash, prizes are subject to applicable taxes and withholding and the prize winner’s compliance with, and agreement to, CrossFit’s prize affidavit. In order for prize money to be collected, the athlete affidavit, tax forms, and payment form must be completed and returned to CrossFit by the date set forth by CrossFit in the prize affidavit. If these forms are not received by this date, prize money will be forfeited.

Additional prizes may be presented by partners, sponsors, or select vendors, and all such prizes are also subject to applicable taxes and withholding and compliance with, and agreement to, CrossFit’s prize affidavit. It is the athlete’s sole responsibility to comply with paying any and all applicable taxes in connection with any prizes, regardless of whether such a prize is cash.

Prizes will only be made payable directly to the winning athlete or the winning affiliate’s Licensee of Record (LOR) on file with CrossFit, LLC.

semifinals
Contents
General Information
2.01 – Semifinals[NEW]
2.02 – CrossFit Affiliate & Head Judge Requirement[NEW]

Registration

2.03 – Registration Process – Age Groups
2.04 – Registration Process – Teams
2.05 – Selecting a Semifinal Competition Roster – Teams [NEW]
2.06 – Registration Process – Individuals

Workouts
2.07 – Judging and Video Requirement [NEW]
2.08 – Event Format[NEW]

Leaderboard
2.09 – Scoring Format and Leaderboard [NEW]
2.10a – Individual and Age Group Public Review [NEW]
2.10b – Individual and Age Group Video Review [NEW]
2.11 – Teams Review [NEW]
2.12 – Penalties [NEW]
2.13 – Leaderboard finalization[NEW]

Advancement
2.14 – Team Advancement [NEW]
2.15 – Athletes Qualifying for Multiple Finals
2.16 – Cash Prizes [NEW]

2.01 – SEMIFINALS [NEW]
The second stage of the CrossFit Games season is Semifinals. Based on the worldwide Open rank, the top 1%* (or a minimum of 1,200 athletes) in the Individual men and women divisions will qualify to participate in Semifinals. The top 2%** (or a minimum of 200 athletes) in each age-group division will qualify to participate in the Age-Group Semifinals. ALL teams from the Open will be eligible to participate in the Team Semifinals with a chance to qualify for the CrossFit Games.

Individual and age-group athletes MUST complete the workouts at a CrossFit affiliate and MUST submit scores with videos for each workout.

Teams MUST complete the workouts at a CrossFit affiliate. As long as the team completes the workouts together, they can complete them at a different affiliate than the one they represent.

Age-group athletes, ages 16-54, are eligible to compete in the Individual Semifinals should they qualify for the competition based on their level on the individual men’s and women’s worldwide leaderboards. They may also compete on a team during the Team Semifinal if they were listed on the team roster during the Open.

CrossFit will provide score submission instructions and event details leading up to and throughout the competition.

*Percentages will be based on the number of athletes registered for the Individual division worldwide at the close of 25.1.
**Percentages will be based on the number of athletes registered for each Age-Group division worldwide at the close of 25.1.

2.02 – SEMIFINALS – CROSSFIT AFFILIATE & HEAD JUDGE REQUIREMENT [NEW]
All athletes (individual and age group and teams) that have registered for Semifinals MUST complete the workouts at a CrossFit affiliate in good standing. In order to host Semifinal athletes and/or teams the CrossFit affiliate will need to assign a head judge to oversee the competition.

The requirements for a Head Judge are:

Hold an active CrossFit Level 1 credential (or higher)
Complete the 2025 Judges Course
Complete the Advanced Judges Course
Must be on-site and introduced in each athlete video during each workout of the competition
The Head Judge will be responsible for:

Spot-checking judges as they judge competing athletes
Ensure video setups and floor requirements are met
Prior to the competition starting, CrossFit Games staff will host an online workout briefing. It is recommended all judges view the online workout brief.

It is the responsibility of the Head Judge to uphold the requirements and standards of the competition, including review of final scores submitted by each athlete in their affiliate.

2.03 – SEMIFINALS – REGISTRATION PROCESS – AGE GROUPS
The Age-Group Semifinal will begin on Thursday, April 3. Once the Open ends and the leaderboard is finalized, CrossFit will send out invitations to the Semifinal event. Any eligible athlete wishing to participate must accept their invitation and register for the Semifinal before the close of the competition. Athletes will not be able to submit a score until they complete the registration process.

Every competing athlete must register online at games.crossfit.com. Registration begins Monday, March 31. As part of the invitation process, athletes worldwide will pay a US$100 athlete registration fee.

Should an athlete decline their invitation, CrossFit does not intend to backfill that spot to the next athlete in line.

2.04 – SEMIFINALS – REGISTRATION PROCESS – TEAMS
The Team Semifinal will begin on Thursday, April 24. Once the Open competition has concluded, any teams wishing to participate must register for the Semifinal before the close of the competition. Teams will not be able to submit a score until they complete the registration process.

Every competing team must register online at games.crossfit.com. Registration begins Monday, April 7. As part of the registration process, teams worldwide will pay a US$100 team registration fee.

2.05 – SEMIFINALS – SELECTING A SEMIFINAL COMPETITION ROSTER – TEAMS [NEW]
During the registration process for Semifinals, teams will need to declare their Competition Team roster. Team managers can only select eligible athletes (see Section 1.13 for eligibility rules) from their Open team roster to move forward on the Competition Team roster. A Competition Team roster will consist of:

A maximum of six (6) athletes.

Three (3) men.
Three (3) women.
A minimum of four (4) athletes.

Two (2) men.
Two (2) women.
These athletes will represent the team for the Semifinal. Athletes in the Individual and Age-Group divisions are eligible to be a member of a Competition Team roster. Any athlete who has qualified and chooses to compete in the Individual Semifinal is eligible to be listed on the Competition Team roster should they choose to compete in both divisions.

Once the members of the team have been selected by the team manager, the Competition Team roster is locked for the Semifinal. Only the athletes on the Competition Team Roster will be eligible to compete for the team during the Semifinal.

2.06 – SEMIFINALS – REGISTRATION PROCESS – INDIVIDUALS
The Individual Semifinal will begin on Thursday, May 1. Once the Open competition finishes and the leaderboard is finalized, CrossFit will send out invitations to the Semifinal event. Any eligible athlete wishing to participate must accept their invitation and register for the Semifinal before the close of the competition. Athletes will not be able to submit a score until they complete the registration process.

Every competing athlete must register online at games.crossfit.com. Registration begins Monday, April 14. As part of the invitation process, athletes worldwide will pay a US$100 athlete registration fee.

Should an athlete decline their invitation, CrossFit does not intend to backfill that spot to the next athlete in line.

Individual division athletes can qualify for the CrossFit Games without competing in the Online Semifinals IF:

They have finished in the top 1% of the Open (or a minimum of 1,200 athletes, whichever is greater) AND
They have earned a qualifying spot via one of the Qualifying Events (see Section 3 for details).
2.07 – SEMIFINALS – JUDGING AND VIDEO REQUIREMENT [NEW]
Individual and Age-Group divisions will be REQUIRED to submit videos of ALL workout performances at the time they submit a score. Videos must be submitted via a publicly viewable YouTube* link/URL. No other video hosting platforms or formats will be accepted. Athletes will not be able to submit scores without a corresponding link/URL.

Submitted videos must be a publicly viewable performance of the corresponding workout. Video submissions may result in a 0 score if they are:

Blocked/unviewable due to copyright issues
Published as “private”
Contain a video of anything other than the athlete completing the corresponding workout
Edited or modified in any way
While not required at score submission, upon request, any team with a qualifying score on any Semifinal workout may be required to provide video of their performance. It is recommended teams aspiring to advance to the CrossFit Games video their performances in case they are requested.

ALL athletes (individual, age group, and teams) competing in Semifinals MUST:

Complete the competition at an affiliate with an established Head Judge (see Section 2.02) AND
Use a second, registered floor judge during each workout who holds the following:
Current L1 certificate (or higher)
2025 Judges Course
Advanced Judges Course
At the time of score submission athletes/teams will be prompted to submit the names of TWO judges;

The Head Judge of the affiliate where the workout was performed
The Floor Judge who judged the athlete/team directly
Scores will be submitted in a similar fashion as they were during the Open competition. See Appendix D for additional information.

All videos submitted for review must adhere to the video submission guidelines provided.

*All YouTube videos must follow these guidelines:

The video must be original content created by the athlete.
The athlete must own all rights to (or have permission to use) the content of the video, including any music used.
The video must be uploaded to YouTube and set to “public.”
Video must comply with YouTube’s Community Guidelines and Terms of Service.
By submitting the video, the athlete grants CrossFit, LLC a worldwide, royalty-free, perpetual license to use, reproduce, distribute, and display the video for the purposes of scoring the Open and any related promotions.
The athlete agrees to indemnify and hold harmless CrossFit, LLC from any claims, damages, or liabilities brought by third parties arising from the athlete’s video submission.
2.08 – SEMIFINALS – EVENT FORMAT [NEW]
Individual, age-group, and team athletes will compete in a series of workouts throughout their competitions. All score submission deadlines must be met, and there will be no exceptions for late scores.

The competition will take place over the course of one weekend in which athletes will need to perform workouts and submit scores. The 2025 Semifinal dates are:

Age Groups: Thursday, April 3, at 12 p.m. PT until Sunday, April 6, at 5 p.m. PT.

Teams: Thursday, April 24, at 12 p.m. PT until Sunday, April 27, at 5 p.m. PT.

Individuals: Thursday, May 1, at 12 p.m. PT until Sunday, May 4, at 5 p.m. PT.



The exact number of workouts to be completed will be released prior to the competition.

All scores will remain hidden from the public leaderboard until after the competition has concluded.

The team event format will be programmed for two men and two women. Once competition begins, the team must select only two men and two women from the Competition Team roster to compete for the duration of the Semifinal. It is not permitted to substitute in the remaining athletes for any reason. Should a member of the team get injured during the competition or need to leave the team for any reason, teams will not be allowed to use their remaining members to complete the competition.

2.09 – SEMIFINALS – SCORING FORMAT AND LEADERBOARD [NEW]
For athletes/teams competing in the Semifinals, all rankings from the Open will reset and each athlete/team will start with the same rank. Athletes/teams will then have scores tabulated from the Semifinal to determine their final rank leading up to the Games. If an athlete/team fails to post a valid score in a Semifinal workout for any reason, that athlete/team will receive a score of “0” for that workout. Team scoring/ranking will be similar to the Open. See Section 1.29 for additional information.

Ties on the overall leaderboard for the Semifinals will be broken by awarding the best position to the athlete or team with the highest result in any single Semifinal workout. If athletes or teams remain tied after the first tiebreaker, the process continues to their next-highest single result, and so forth. Results from individual Open workouts will not be used to break ties on the overall Semifinal leaderboard. Ties will not be broken for single workout results. More than one athlete or team can share a workout result, and each will earn the original point value.

During Semifinals, athletes and teams are ranked on the leaderboard based on their total placement in all workouts. For example, an athlete with second-place, third-place, and fifth-place finishes will have 10 total points (2+3+5=10) and be ranked ahead of an athlete with first-place, second-place, and 10th-place finishes, who would have 13 points (1+2+10=13).

2.10a – SEMIFINALS – INDIVIDUAL AND AGE GROUP PUBLIC REVIEW [NEW]
Following the competition deadline for the Semifinal (Sunday at 5 p.m. PT), all athletes in the individual and age group divisions will have their videos made public on the leaderboard within an hour of competition closing. The videos will be available until Friday at 5 p.m. PT following the close of competition for public viewing. Judges who have completed the 2025 Online Judges Course will be able to review, judge, and assess each video/workout as follows:

Good Video: Submission should be accepted without modification.
Needs Review: Submission should be assessed a penalty due to issues with movement standards, incorrect loading, measurements, or rep count. Or the video is edited in any way.
Unviewable: Video will not play, OR does not show the correct workout.
Any votes after the review period will not be considered by the review team. All submitted videos are subject to review and CrossFit reserves the right to review videos as it sees fit.

After the public review period, if a video receives a significant number of “good video” votes, the score may be accepted on the Leaderboard as submitted. If a video receives no votes it may be accepted on the leaderboard.

If a video receives a significant number of “needs review” votes from the public, the video will then be reviewed by CrossFit and a penalty may be applied. If it is determined that a penalty is warranted it will be issued in accordance with the penalty section scripted in the movement standards/scorecard documentation of each workout (more information in Section 2.12).

The “unviewable” designation will be used to identify videos that cannot be viewed or do not match the correct workout. If an athlete’s video is not viewable or valid by Friday at 5 p.m. PT following the close of competition, it will be given a 0 score.

Athletes are responsible for submitting the correct, viewable video before the Friday 5 p.m. PT deadline following the close of competition.

2.10b – SEMIFINALS – INDIVIDUAL AND AGE GROUP VIDEO REVIEW [NEW]
Any video reviewed by CrossFit will receive the designation of accepted, modified, or invalidated/rejected via email communication with the athlete.

Accepted: The athlete meets the required movement standards and the score posted is correct. The score has been accepted.

Note: Athletes who submit videos that receive a significant number of “good video” votes should not expect to receive email notification from CrossFit.
Modified: The athlete’s originally submitted score was adjusted. This may be due to:

Penalty: The athlete received a penalty based on any of the scripted criteria in the penalties section of the workout documents (see Section 2.12 for details).
Zero (0) Score: Over the course of the video, the athlete failed to complete the workout as required, they completed the wrong movements, or the judges used did not have the necessary credentials (L1 or higher + Advanced Judges Course), or the video is not viewable or valid after the Friday 5 p.m. PT deadline. If the athlete received a 0 score, the rest of their score submissions for the competition will remain on the leaderboard.
Score Adjustment: The athlete’s score needs to be modified based on a miscounted number of total reps completed, or an incorrect finish or tiebreak time (or any combination). A score adjustment may stand alone or be applied in conjunction with a result from a penalty as described above.
Invalidated/Rejected: CrossFit reserves the right to invalidate a score submission if it is determined that the athlete is acting with malicious intent to manipulate the workout to gain an unfair advantage (i.e., cheating). If an athlete’s score is invalidated, all of their scores for the competition will be removed from the leaderboard.

CrossFit will make an announcement when the review process is complete. At its own discretion, CrossFit reserves the right to stop reviewing videos once enough videos have been reviewed to fill the Games rosters.

Any appeals on score modifications must follow the same process as outlined in Section 1.23.

2.11 – SEMIFINALS – TEAMS REVIEW [NEW]
Team scores will be valid at the close of competition. CrossFit may request videos for review at its discretion. It is recommended that teams aspiring to qualify for the CrossFit Games have videos available should CrossFit request to review a score.

Teams may qualify to compete at the Games if their score is validated and/or modified. If a team’s score is modified, the team’s overall rank will be recalculated with this new score. If the team remains ranked in a high-enough position following this recalculation, the team may receive an invitation to the Finals.


CrossFit will make an announcement when the review process is complete and the leaderboard is final.

Any appeals on score modifications must follow the same process as outlined in Section 1.23.

2.12 – SEMIFINALS PENALTIES [NEW]
CrossFit Games will provide scripted criteria for penalties applied after video review for each workout in the corresponding workout documents. All penalty criteria will be made public prior to the competition beginning. In the event of a penalty, an adjustment to the athlete’s score will be made in the following manner:

No-Reps: CrossFit Games will assign specific penalties for each movement of each workout, found in the workout documents. For example, each “no-rep” of a movement may be scripted as a 5-second penalty. In this instance, the athlete’s time will be adjusted based on the number of no-reps x 5 seconds. Therefore, 5 no-reps would result in an increase of 25 seconds to the athlete’s score (5 no-reps x 5 seconds each).

False Starts/Wrong Starting Position: Athletes starting in the incorrect position OR who begin the workout before the “GO” signal will be issued a 10-second penalty.

Movements Obscured or Performed Out of Frame:

If the movements are partially visible (i.e., they can be identified as the correct movement) but range of motion cannot be verified, those reps will be treated as “no-reps.”
If the movements are unable to be verified at all (i.e., the athlete is completely out of frame), athletes will be given credit only for all work completed prior to the unverifiable reps.
Incorrect Setup: Athletes who do not show the correct setup OR use the incorrect setup may receive a 0 score. Correct setup includes:

Correct loading (e.g., the total weight of a barbell)
Correct measurements (e.g., height of a rope climb or wall-ball shot)
Correct camera placement and/or athlete/equipment orientation
Judges Do Not Have the Correct Credentials: The Head Judge and Floor Judge used during competition must hold a current L1 certificate (or higher) AND have completed the Advanced Judges Course. A 0 score may be given if the judges do not hold these credentials.

If an athlete receives penalties in multiple areas they will be combined and the athlete’s score will be adjusted to reflect the total penalty.

In the event a penalty adjusts the athlete’s score beyond the time cap, the athlete’s score will be adjusted to match the work completed within the time cap after the penalty is applied.

For example, the time cap for the workout Fran (90 total reps) is 6 minutes. The athlete submitted a score of 5:30 and received a penalty of 60 seconds (5:30 + 60 seconds = 6:30 —30 seconds over the time cap). All work performed by the athlete in their final 30 seconds will be removed from the score.

This score on the leaderboard will be displayed as a time-capped score, with reps removed from the total possible reps. In this example, 9 pull-ups were performed in the final 30 seconds, making the new score 81 (of a possible 90) repetitions.

In the event of a penalty during a workout scored by total reps completed, any no-reps will be removed from the athlete’s score. If a false start is assessed in this scenario, any repetitions performed in the final 10 seconds of the workout will be removed.

It is ultimately the athlete’s responsibility to ensure:

The competition is completed at a registered CrossFit affiliate.
The Head Judge and Floor Judge hold the required credentials.
The workouts are completed as described in the corresponding workout descriptions document
Any unviewable video is resubmitted BEFORE the Friday, 5 p.m. PT deadline following the close of competition.


2.13 – SEMIFINALS – LEADERBOARD FINALIZATION [NEW]
Leaderboards will not be final until after the review process is complete. Only after this time will athletes know if they are advancing to the next stage of competition. CrossFit will make an announcement when each leaderboard is final.

The Age-Group leaderboard will be final no later than April 21, 2025.
The Team leaderboard will be final no later than May 2, 2025.
The Individual leaderboard will be final no later than May 19, 2025.
The number of athletes and teams to qualify for the Games and Divisional Finals from the online Semifinals are:

Individual division: The number of Online Semifinals qualifiers (in each division) will be the difference of all qualifiers (30) minus the total number of advancing athletes from Qualifying events. CrossFit will announce the specific number of Online Semifinal qualifiers before the start of the competition.



Masters 35-39 division: The top 30 men and 30 women

Masters 40-44 division: The top 30 men and 30 women

Masters 45-49 division: The top 30 men and 30 women

Masters 50-54 division: The top 30 men and 30 women

Masters 55-59 division: The top 30 men and 30 women

Masters 60-64 division: The top 20 men and 20 women

Masters 65-69 division: The top 20 men and 20 women

Masters 70+ division: The top 10 men and 10 women



Teenagers 14-15 division: The top 30 boys and 30 girls

Teenagers 16-17 division: The top 30 boys and 30 girls



Teams: The top 20 teams

If an athlete/team declines their invitation to compete at the Games, their spot may be backfilled to the next eligible athlete.

2.14 – SEMIFINALS – TEAM ADVANCEMENT [NEW]
Only one team per affiliate will advance to represent that affiliate at the finals. If an affiliate has multiple teams compete in the Semifinal and more than one team finishes in a qualifying position, CrossFit will elect to invite the next eligible team on the leaderboard as long as the team is from a different affiliate.

Affiliates that qualify for the Games may select any eligible athlete who has competed in the Semifinals to comprise the affiliate’s Games roster. More information can be found in Section 5.04.

2.15 – SEMIFINALS – ATHLETES QUALIFYING FOR MULTIPLE FINALS
After Semifinals, athletes who qualify for the Games in multiple divisions are eligible to compete as follows:

Qualifying for the Games in two divisions: Individual and Team

An athlete who qualifies as an individual AND on a team must choose to compete in the Individual OR team division at the Games. They cannot compete both on a team AND as an individual competitor.
Qualifying for the Games in two divisions: Age Group and Individual OR Age Group and Team

Athletes who qualify in age group and as an individual OR on a team may compete in the Masters CrossFit Games (or Teenage CrossFit Games) and in the division they have qualified for at the CrossFit Games.
Qualifying for the Games in three divisions: Age Group, Individual, and Team

Athletes who qualify in an age group, as an individual, AND on a team can compete in the Masters CrossFit Games (or Teenage CrossFit Games), then they must choose whether to compete on a team or as an individual at the CrossFit Games. They cannot compete both on a team AND as an individual competitor.
2.16 – SEMIFINALS – CASH PRIZES [NEW]
The online semifinals prize purse will be solely funded by Open registration fees. A percentage of Open registration fees will go toward the semifinal cash prizes.

Cash prizes will be awarded to the top Individual athletes at Semifinals. All cash prizes are paid in U.S. dollars. Prize values will be released prior to the beginning of competition.

Event winners and other compensated athletes may be required to present valid identification to claim prizes. All prizes, regardless of whether such a prize is cash, are subject to applicable taxes and withholding, and the prize winner’s compliance with, and agreement to, CrossFit’s prize affidavit. In order for prize money to be collected, the athlete affidavit, tax forms, and payment form must be completed and returned to CrossFit by the date set forth by CrossFit in the prize affidavit. If these forms are not received by this date, prize money will be forfeited.

Additional prizes may be presented by partners, sponsors, or select vendors, and all such prizes are also subject to applicable taxes and withholding and compliance with, and agreement to, CrossFit’s prize affidavit. It is the athlete’s sole responsibility to comply with paying any and all applicable taxes in connection with any prizes, regardless of whether such a prize is cash.

Prize money will only be released once the drug-testing process has been finalized. Only athletes and teams who have been drug tested with a confirmed negative result are eligible to receive prize money.

If a top athlete or team becomes disqualified, CrossFit will only award prizes to an athlete or team that sits one spot lower on the leaderboard.

Prizes will only be made payable directly to the winning athlete.

CROSSFIT GAMES QUALIFYING EVENT
Contents
3.01 – CrossFit Games Qualifying Event [NEW]
3.02 – Awards and Prizes
3.03 – Drug Testing

3.01 – CROSSFIT GAMES QUALIFYING EVENT [NEW]
An additional option for individual men and women to qualify for the CrossFit Games will be through a select number of Partnered CrossFit Games Qualifying Events.

Qualifying events are responsible to program and administer their own competitions. These competitions may invite athletes and include qualifying rounds or other criteria at their discretion. Only athletes who have placed within the top 1% (or min 1,200, see Section 2.01 for more info) of the Open AND earned a qualifying spot through a Qualifying Event will be eligible to advance to the CrossFit Games.

Winners from each Qualifying Event will earn an invitation to compete at the CrossFit Games. Each Qualifying Event will send at least one man and one woman to the CrossFit Games.

If an athlete finishes in a qualifying position in multiple competitions, they will retain their Games invitation from the first competition from which they qualified. Their rank will be passed over in subsequent competitions (Online Semifinals OR Live Events) and the Games invitation given to the next in line (i.e., backfilled). This process will repeat if the second-place finisher has earned a Games invitation and so on.

Examples of athletes placing in qualifying position in multiple competitions:

An athlete finishing in a qualifying position from a Qualifying Event that occurs BEFORE the Online Semifinals (May 4) will retain their Games invitation from the Qualifying Event. Their ranking in the Online Semifinals will be passed over to the next athlete in line when awarding Games invitations.
An athlete finishing in qualifying position from a Qualifying Event that occurs AFTER the Online Semifinals leaderboard is final Online Semifinals (no later than May 19) will retain their Games invitation from the Online Semifinals. The next in line at the Qualifying Event will receive a Games invitation.
Teams and age groups do not have an option to qualify for the Games from a CrossFit Games Qualifying Event.

For any questions regarding registration or qualifying for an event, contact the respective Qualifying Event directly.

3.02 – AWARDS AND PRIZE MONEY
Each Qualifying Event will provide its own awards and prize money. For questions concerning awards or prize money, contact the respective competition directly.

3.03 – DRUG TESTING
While the Qualifying Events are independent, CrossFit will conduct drug testing at these events. Drug testing is required for any individual athlete to advance to the Games. Failure to comply with CrossFit’s instructions and the instructions of the collection agent(s) through the entire drug-testing process may result in the athlete forfeiting their invitation to the Games and being disqualified from future competition(s).

Athletes selected for drug testing will be notified by CrossFit or event staff and escorted to the drug-testing area for the administration of the drug test.



COMMUNITY CUP
Contents
4.01 – Community Cup [NEW]
4.02 – Registration Process
4.03 – Event Format
4.04 – Leaderboard

4.01 – COMMUNITY CUP [NEW]
All athletes who receive a level after the Open (i.e., all athletes who submit a score for all three Open workouts) will have the opportunity to compete in the Community Cup in one of five tiered competitions.

Athletes will compete against others of similar level, established during the Open. For example, Level 9 and10 athletes will compete in the Pro competition solely against athletes who are Levels 9 and 10 based on their Open performance, Levels 7 and 8 will compete in the Advanced competition, and so forth. The five tiers are:

Community Cup	Percentile	Ages 16-54 Levels
Pro	99-100	10
88-98	9
Advanced	77-87	8	Ages 55+ Levels
66-76	7	10	Ages 14-15 Levels
Intermediate	55-65	6	9	8-10
44-54	5	8
Novice	33-43	4	7	7
22-32	3	6	6
Rookie	11-21	2	1-5	1-5
0-10	1


The competitions will run similarly to the Open in that athletes will complete the workouts at an affiliate, submit scores online, and see their rankings on the leaderboard. Video submission is not permitted and no video submission is required for top athletes. Each competition will have its own leaderboard. When the leaderboards are final, CrossFit will recognize the winners of each tier.

All participating athletes submitting scores are encouraged to use a registered judge (an individual who has passed the 2025 Judges Course) for each workout.

For the 2025 season, there will not be a team community competition.

4.02 – COMMUNITY CUP – REGISTRATION PROCESS
The 2025 Community Cup will begin on Monday, June 9. After the Open finishes, the leaderboard is finalized, and levels have been set, CrossFit will send invites to athletes for each tier competition. Any athlete wishing to participate must register for their respective tier competition before the close of the first score submission window. Athletes will only be able to register for the competition they are invited to. Athletes will not be able to submit a score until they complete the registration process.

Every competing athlete must register online at games.crossfit.com. Registration begins Monday, May 12. As part of the registration process, athletes worldwide will pay a US$30 athlete registration fee.

4.03 – COMMUNITY CUP – EVENT FORMAT
Athletes will compete in a series of three workouts from Monday, June 9, at 12 p.m. PT until Sunday, June 15, at 5 p.m. PT.  All scores must be submitted before Sunday at 5 p.m. PT, and there will be no exceptions for late scores.

Scores submitted to affiliates are automatically valid on the leaderboard and may be rejected by the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager if it was submitted incorrectly. CrossFit Games Affiliate Managers will only have the ability to reject scores until Wednesday, at 5 p.m. PT. It is the responsibility of the CrossFit Games Affiliate Manager to ensure correct scores are submitted.

4.04 – COMMUNITY CUP – LEADERBOARD
The CrossFit Games website will host the only official leaderboards for the Community Cup. Athletes will be ranked on the CrossFit Games leaderboard based on their performance relative to other athletes in their division.

During the Community Cup, athletes are ranked on the leaderboard based on their total placement in all workouts. For example, an athlete with second-place, third-place and fifth-place finishes will have 10 total points (2+3+5=10) and be ranked ahead of an athlete with first-place, second-place and 10th-place finishes, who would have 13 points (1+2+10=13).

Ties on the overall leaderboard will be broken by awarding the best position to the athlete who has the highest result in any single workout. If athletes remain tied after this first tiebreaker, the process continues to their next-highest single result, and so forth. Ties will not be broken for single workout results. More than one athlete can share a workout rank, and each will earn the original point value. The athlete with the top performance across multiple workouts in a competition wins that competition.



The Games
Contents
General Information
5.01 – The Games

Registration Process
5.02 – Individuals
5.03 – Teams

5.04 – Selecting a Games Competition Roster – Teams [NEW]
5.05 – Age Group

On-Site
5.06 – On-Site Registration
5.07 – Event Announcements
5.08 – On-Site Briefing

Leaderboard
5.09 – Event Athlete Seeding
5.10 – Rankings
5.11 – Scoring

Other
5.12 – Appeals
5.13 – Appeals Process
5.14 – Injury Policy
5.15 – Required Attire / Gear
5.16 – Athlete Entourage
5.18 – On-site Drug Testing
5.18 – Cancellation / Modification Policy

Prizes
5.17 – Cash Prizes [NEW]

5.01 – THE GAMES
The CrossFit Games season for individuals and teams culminates with the CrossFit Games finals. During the multiday competition, the top athletes and teams will compete for the title of Fittest on Earth®.

The CrossFit Games season for masters and teenage athletes will conclude at the Masters CrossFit Games and the Teenage CrossFit Games, respectively. During the multiday competitions, top athletes will compete for their division championships.

The rules outlined in the following sections apply to the masters and teenage finals as well unless otherwise stated. When “athletes” are referenced in this section, it should be assumed to include masters and teenage athletes. The event organizers may provide additional rules/information on-site to support the rules in this section.

5.02 – GAMES REGISTRATION PROCESS – INDIVIDUALS
The total number of individual athletes at the Games from the online Semifinal and in-person Qualifying Events will be 30 men and 30 women.

Shortly after qualifying for or receiving an invitation to the Games and prior to arriving on-site, all individual athletes who wish to compete in the Games will receive an email containing instructions on how to register for the Games and pay the US$400 individual athlete registration fee. The email will also provide information on hotel accommodations, credentials, and Games tickets, as well as a basic schedule listing the dates and times for athlete check-in and orientation.

If an athlete declines their invitation to compete at the Games, their spot may be backfilled to the next eligible athlete. Backfills will be selected from the original competition the athlete earned their Games invite as described in Section 3.01.

Should an individual athlete violate CrossFit’s Drug Policy prior to arriving at the CrossFit Games, CrossFit may award the position to the next eligible athlete depending on the timing of the failed test.

In the event of a backfill or violation of CrossFit’s Drug Policy, no more than three athletes outside of qualifying position may be eligible for a backfill position.

CrossFit will not backfill for athletes who do not officially decline their invitation.

Athletes who have questions before traveling to the Games may contact support@crossfitgames.com for assistance.

5.03 – GAMES REGISTRATION PROCESS – TEAMS
Shortly after qualifying for or receiving an invitation to the Games and prior to arriving on-site, team athletes will receive an email containing instructions on how to register for the Games and pay the US$600 team registration fee. The email will also provide information on hotel accommodations, credentials, and Games tickets, as well as a basic schedule listing the dates and times for athlete check-in and orientation.

Prior to arriving on-site, teams will need to declare their competition roster (see Section 5.04 for competition roster details).

Teams will use their licensed affiliate gym name as their team name at the Games. Teams may not use a sponsor name or any form of a sponsor name as part of their official team name. Training programs, supplement companies, apparel companies, etc., are not allowed to be part of the team name. Upon registering, teams may be asked to select a new team name if the team’s proposed name violates the policy.

If a team declines its invitation to compete at the Games, the team’s spot will be backfilled to the next eligible team.

If any of the team members on the team’s Competition Roster violate CrossFit’s Drug Policy, the team’s invitation may pass to the next eligible team from the team’s respective Semifinal competition depending on the timing of the failed test.

In the event of a backfill or violation of CrossFit’s Drug Policy, no more than three teams outside of qualifying position will be eligible for a backfill position.

CrossFit will not backfill spots for teams who do not officially decline their invitation.

Team managers or athletes who have questions before traveling to the Games may contact support@crossfitgames.com for assistance.

5.04 – GAMES REGISTRATION PROCESS – SELECTING A GAMES COMPETITION ROSTER – TEAMS [NEW]
Before the start of the competition, teams will select a NEW competition roster. The team roster will consist of:

A maximum of six (6) athletes.

Three (3) men
Three (3) women
A minimum of four (4) athletes.

Two (2) men
Two (2) women
The Games competition roster may be composed of any eligible athletes (see section 1.13) who competed for the affiliate during Team Semifinals. As long as the athletes listed on the Finals roster competed during the Semifinal, the three men and three women listed on the Finals competition roster may be different from the Semifinal competition roster. If an affiliate had multiple teams compete during Semifinals AND qualified for the Finals, they can rework their Games competition roster to select any athletes from any of their teams.

Once on-site, teams may substitute any athlete on their Games competition roster up to the point of athlete check-in prior to the first team event. Once the team is checked in for the first event, no further substitutions will be allowed throughout the remainder of the competition.

5.05 – GAMES REGISTRATION PROCESS – AGE-GROUP ATHLETES
Shortly after qualifying for the Games and prior to arriving on-site, age-group athletes will receive an email containing instructions on how to register for the CrossFit Games and pay the US$400 age-group athlete registration fee.

If an athlete declines their invitation to compete at the Games, their spot will be backfilled to the next eligible athlete in their respective age division.

Should an athlete violate CrossFit’s Drug Policy prior to arriving at the CrossFit Games, CrossFit may award the position to the next eligible athlete from their respective age division depending on the timing of the failed test.

In the event of a backfill or violation of CrossFit’s Drug Policy, no more than three athletes outside of qualifying position in any division will be eligible for a backfill position.

CrossFit will not backfill spots for athletes who do not officially decline their invitation.

If an age-group athlete qualifies in both an age-group division AND as an individual OR on a team, they may compete in both finals.

Athletes who have questions before traveling to the CrossFit Games should contact their event organizers directly.

5.06 – GAMES – ON-SITE REGISTRATION
INDIVIDUALS/TEAMS:
The dates, location, and travel information for the Games will be distributed on the CrossFit Games website and/or through email to athletes or team managers. It is the responsibility of each athlete and team to meet all required travel and scheduling commitments. This includes, but is not limited to, all non-competition appearances and media commitments. Athletes are required to designate a point of contact with CrossFit at registration and maintain this for the duration of the Games.

Upon arriving, athletes will register by providing Games staff with a valid and generally accepted form of identification, such as a state driver’s license or passport. All athletes from a team must register together. Photo ID must be provided by all team athletes (the four competing athletes and two optional alternates). Team captains will also confirm the team’s four competing athletes at registration.

Once proof of identity has been verified, athletes will receive a packet containing their athlete credential, complimentary spectator passes, media interview schedule (if required), coach’s declaration form, most recent schedule, important point of contact information, and a venue map with parking information.

During the registration process, athlete and team coaches must be declared. Coaches must be on-site to register and receive their credentials. Only one coach per athlete or team will receive a credential for the entire competition. Coach credentials are non-transferable. Prior to receiving their credentials, coaches must attend a mandatory orientation and complete the online Judges Course. Coaches must be 18 years or older.

As part of the registration process, athletes will receive uniforms for the competition.

Athletes will be scheduled for interviews and photographs as required.

AGE GROUPS:
Information regarding the registration process will be communicated by each event organizer respectively. Any questions regarding the registration process should be directed to the event organizers.

5.07 – GAMES – EVENT ANNOUNCEMENTS
Athletes and teams will compete in multiple workouts — called “events” — over multiple days. In keeping with the spirit of the Games, the schedule and events will be released shortly before the competition begins. Event details will be released prior to the start of an event and transmitted in a consistent manner for all eligible athletes.

5.08 – GAMES – ON-SITE BRIEFINGS
Athletes and teams will be briefed on events through scheduled event briefings. It is the responsibility of each competing athlete and team to attend all briefings and commitments on the competition schedule.

Athlete attendance is mandatory for the daily athlete and team briefings. The time and location of the briefings will be communicated to all athletes and teams. Athletes and teams who are late to or absent from a briefing may lose one appeal for each incident and also may be disqualified from further competition.

Demonstration of movement standards, including the acceptable ranges of motion, or demonstration of unacceptable movements or ranges of motion is not required. Such demonstration methods will be used at the discretion of the Head Judge or on-site director.

Judges will attend athlete and team briefings as well as their own briefings to prepare for each event.

Should any athlete require a translator for the briefing, they will need to speak with the Athlete Control lead on-site to receive approval for the translator to be present.

5.09 – GAMES – EVENT ATHLETE SEEDING
All competing athletes will be seeded going into the Games competition. Individual athlete’s seeding for the first event of the competition will be determined by the athlete’s final placement in the Open on the worldwide leaderboard.

Teams and age-group athletes will be seeded based on their placement in Semifinals.

Individuals and teams will typically be reseeded after each event based on current competition rank.

5.10 – GAMES – LEADERBOARD RANKINGS
Athlete and team performances will be ranked in each event. Points will be assigned according to an athlete’s or team’s relative rank (i.e., performance when compared to the performance of other athletes or teams). These points will be used to rank the athletes and teams on the CrossFit Games leaderboard. Points tables will be available on games.crossfit.com prior to the start of competition.

Ties on the overall leaderboard will be broken by awarding the best position to the athlete/team with the highest result in any single event. If athletes/teams remain tied after this first tiebreaker, the process continues to the next-highest single result, and so forth. Ties will not be broken for single event results. More than one athlete/team can share an event rank, and each will earn the original point value. The athlete/team with the top performance across multiple events in a competition wins that competition.

As the Games competition unfolds, only the top-ranked athletes and teams may be selected to continue in the competition.

Every athlete or team who stands atop the overall CrossFit Games leaderboard at the end of the competition earns the title of Fittest on Earth®.

5.11 – GAMES – SCORING
Specific scoring formats will be provided when the event formats are announced and during on-site briefings. For teams, any configuration of men, women, or total number of athletes contributing to the score may be required.

Events may have time penalties. Failure to complete an event within the designated time may result in a specified penalty for any portion of the event not completed or may result in the athlete or team not advancing to the next event, regardless of overall rank.

Events may have a minimum work requirement in terms of the amount of time, repetitions, weight, or rounds to be completed in order to advance. Any such minimums will be announced as part of the event format. Failure to complete the minimum work requirement may cause the athlete or team to not advance in the competition, regardless of overall rank.

If there is no minimum work requirement for an event, athletes are expected to continue attempting to complete each event for the duration of their heat. This means they are actively attempting to complete the specific movements of the event as it is written until the time cap expires. Athletes who are unwilling or unable due to injury to continue attempting to complete each event within the time cap may be removed from competition. This does not apply to athletes who have reached failure and are taking extended recovery time in an attempt to finish.

Events may use chip timers (transponders) for official timing. For chip-timed events, the chip will be placed on the same area of the body for all athletes. The official time for each athlete will be recorded when the transponder reaches the finish mat or crosses the finish line.

During competition, if an athlete or team is unable to participate in the next event for any reason (DNF, injury, etc.), the athlete or team will be withdrawn from competition. The athlete or team will retain the points they have earned in competition to the point of withdrawal and will be ranked accordingly.

5.12 – GAMES – APPEALS
Athletes or team captains should file on-site appeals, event protests, or scoring questions with the Appeals Manager immediately following the event or at the earliest possible opportunity. Coaches are welcome to be involved with the appeals process but only after the completion of the event and in conjunction with the athlete.

Athletes are welcome to bring all concerns to the Appeals Manager, who will help them determine if a situation is up for appeal. It is likely that judgment calls made during an event are final and not negotiable or subject to change, modification, or appeal.

An athlete or team CANNOT appeal most live judgment calls and no reps by the judge. Common examples include but are not limited to:

Most range of motion faults (end ranges of rep), such as:
Depth of a squat.
Extension of hips, knees, or arms.
Stabilization of a lift or equipment overhead.
Examples of events or actions an athlete or team CAN appeal include:

Scorecard or leaderboard data inconsistencies or errors.
Counting inconsistencies or errors ( i.e., the total number of repetitions completed was incorrect).
Loading inconsistencies or errors.
Course markings or directional inconsistencies or errors.
Equipment or monitor failure that was not the responsibility of the athlete.
Miscommunication by a judge regarding movement standards or event order or direction.
Action of another athlete or person which impeded the athlete’s progress.
Judgment calls during movements with exaggerated cycle-times, such as a handstand walk or rope climb, may be considered for an appeal on a case-by-case basis.
Two-appeal rule:

Athletes/teams will start the competition with two appeals.
Following each test, athletes/teams have the option to appeal (see eligible list above).
If after investigation the appeal is granted, the athlete/team will retain their appeal count.
If after investigation the appeal is denied, the athlete/team will lose one appeal from their appeal count.
If an athlete/team exhausts their appeal count, they will not be allowed to make any other appeals over the remainder of the competition.
Missing mandatory competition responsibilities such as athlete registration or test briefings may result in a loss of an appeal at the Head Judge’s discretion.
5.13 – GAMES – APPEALS PROCESS
For all on-site appeals, event protests, or scoring questions, the following process will be used:

The competing athlete or team captain will state the case and request an Appeals Form from the Appeals Manager.
If the issue is eligible for appeal (see section 5.12), the athlete or team captain will fill out the Appeals Form.
As soon as possible and prior to the end of the competition day, the athlete or team captain will return the Appeals Form to the Appeals Manager.
The Head Judge, the involved judge(s), and/or the on-site competition director will review the submitted Appeals Form and complete the fact-finding process for the issue in question.
When a decision has been reached, the athlete/team will be contacted with the results of the appeal.
Appeals should be considered pending until the athlete or team has been contacted with a resolution.

Video, photos, cell-phone media, or any other media will not constitute grounds for changing or modifying a decision, score, or entry made by an event judge.

No media of any kind is permitted during the appeals process.

Nothing in these procedures concerning event appeals, scoring discrepancies, event movement standards, or range-of-motion requirements should be read as a limitation on CrossFit’s right to run or operate any CrossFit-supported or sponsored event as it sees fit in its sole and absolute discretion. The Head Judge and CrossFit’s decisions are final. This includes the right to remove or disqualify any team or athlete at CrossFit’s sole and absolute discretion.

5.14 – GAMES – INJURY POLICY
In the case of injury, any athlete who is unable to finish an event, or who requires medical attention following an event, must receive clearance from the Medical Staff and the Head Judge before returning to competition. The Head Judge, in collaboration with other CrossFit Games leadership, will have the authority to remove the athlete from competition at any time based on the severity of the injury, the athlete’s inability to complete an event, likelihood of further injury, and/or other factors.

Individual, age-group, or team athletes who miss their heat due to injury or while undergoing medical treatment or assessment will be disqualified from the competition. If a team cannot take the field with a full roster, they will be removed from the competition. The athlete/team will retain the points they have earned in competition.

5.15 – GAMES – REQUIRED ATTIRE/GEAR
INDIVIDUALS/TEAMS:
Athletes must comply with CrossFit’s uniform requirements. Only official competition apparel or items expressly pre-approved by CrossFit will be permitted on the competition floor and at athlete functions such as orientations. Athletes must wear the supplied uniform during all competition events. Athlete jersey numbers must be visible during all competition events. Competition jerseys may not be altered.

Athletes are not allowed to display any commercial logo on their competition wear (with the exception of CrossFit official partners and the manufacturer of the competition uniform) without advance approval by CrossFit. Religious attire is permitted but must be pre-approved by CrossFit.

Athletes may ONLY wear the apparel issued to them at registration in the following categories.

Competition jerseys/tops.
Sports bras.
Bottoms.
Swimsuits.
Other specific gear may be provided by CrossFit. In some instances, only the provided equipment in the specific category may be worn. Athletes will be notified of any specific gear requirements in the athlete information package sent via email prior to on-site registration. Any equipment not provided by CrossFit must meet the specifications outlined in section 7.03.

Athletes will not be permitted to display any apparel, equipment, accessories, symbols, art, graphics, or other items not expressly approved in advance by CrossFit, including, without limitation, headwear, apparel, tape, sunglasses, water bottles, stickers, logos, and body or head tattoos or art that represent a sponsor (temporary or permanent).

CrossFit retains the right to disallow any piece of equipment or apparel from entering the competition floor for any reason, at its sole discretion.

AGE GROUPS:
Information regarding uniform policies will be communicated by each event organizer respectively.

5.16 – GAMES – ATHLETE ENTOURAGE
Information regarding an athlete’s or team’s entourage will be provided in the athlete information package sent via email prior to on-site registration.

Information regarding an age-group athlete’s entourage will be provided by their event organizers respectively.

5.17 – GAMES – CASH PRIZES [NEW]
A percentage of Open registration fees will go toward the Games cash prizes.

Cash prizes will be awarded to the top performers. All cash prizes will be paid in U.S. dollars. Prize values will be released prior to the beginning of competition.

Event winners and other compensated athletes may be required to present valid identification to claim prizes. All prizes, regardless of whether such a prize is cash, are subject to applicable taxes and withholding and the prize winner’s compliance with and agreement to CrossFit’s prize affidavit. In order for prize money to be collected, the athlete affidavit, tax forms, and payment form must be completed and returned to CrossFit by the date set forth by CrossFit in the prize affidavit. If these forms are not received by this date, prize money will be forfeited.

Additional prizes may be presented by partners, sponsors, or select vendors, and all such prizes are also subject to applicable taxes, withholding, compliance with, and agreement to CrossFit’s prize affidavit. It is the athlete’s sole responsibility to comply with paying any and all applicable taxes in connection with any prizes, regardless of whether such a prize is cash. Prize money will be released only once drug-test results have been confirmed. Athletes can expect the drug-testing process to take between six and eight weeks at a minimum, depending on results.

5.18 – GAMES – ON-SITE DRUG TESTING
Individual, age-group, and team athletes will be subject to drug testing at any time during the competition. Athletes selected for drug testing will be notified by Athlete Control personnel. Selected athletes will be escorted to the drug-testing area by Athlete Control. Athletes must follow Athlete Control and collection agent instructions and submit valid samples for drug testing to remain eligible to compete.

The following athletes will be selected for drug testing at the end of the competition:

Top 5 overall individual men and women.
Top 5 overall teams, all members.
Top 5 overall masters athletes, men and women, in each division.
Athletes selected for drug testing due to order of finish must pass their drug test to claim their final placement and prize. See section 8 for more details.

5.19 – GAMES – CANCELLATION/MODIFICATION POLICY
If for any reason the CrossFit Games are not capable of running as planned by reason of tampering, unauthorized intervention, fraud, technical failures, or any other causes beyond the control of CrossFit, which, in the sole opinion of CrossFit, are corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity, or proper conduct of the CrossFit Games, CrossFit reserves the right to cancel, terminate, modify, or suspend the CrossFit Games and select the winner from among all eligible, non-suspect registrations or submissions received prior to cancellation, termination, or suspension. CrossFit has no obligation to operate or produce the CrossFit Games (or any part thereof), and there is no obligation to broadcast the CrossFit Games, even if the CrossFit Games take place. In the event the CrossFit Games competition is canceled, CrossFit (or any party) has no obligation to award any prize money. In the event that the CrossFit Games competition is modified, CrossFit reserves the right to modify the invitation process, including updating who is invited to compete, who may be backfilled to compete, and limiting the number of athletes eligible to compete. The CrossFit Games may also modify the number of divisions that will be competing. All decisions by CrossFit concerning eligibility, qualification, and judging related to the CrossFit Games are final and not subject to challenge or appeal. Any materials submitted as part of the qualification or registration process for the CrossFit Games are governed by CrossFit’s Privacy Policy.

Adaptive Athletes
6.01 – ADAPTIVE ATHLETES
The adaptive-athlete season will be administered by WheelWOD. The official rulebook for the adaptive season will also be published by WheelWOD. Athletes must have a valid CrossFit account to participate in the Adaptive season.

The adaptive season will begin Feb. 27, 2025, with an online Open competition running concurrently with the CrossFit Games Open. Athletes will register and compete on the WheelWOD platform.

Once the Adaptive Open competition has concluded, the top athletes in each division will advance to an online Semifinal competition hosted on the WheelWOD platform.

After Semifinals, the top athletes in each division will advance to compete in a live, in-person final. The Adaptive CrossFit Games will take place following the CrossFit Games at a later date.

Cash prizes will be awarded to the top performers. All cash prizes will be paid in U.S. dollars. Prizes will only be made payable directly to the winning athlete.

Event winners and other compensated athletes may be required to present valid identification to claim prizes. All prizes, regardless of whether such a prize is cash, are subject to applicable taxes and withholding and the prize winner’s compliance with and agreement to CrossFit’s prize affidavit. In order for prize money to be collected, the athlete affidavit, tax forms, and payment form must be completed and returned to CrossFit by the date set forth by CrossFit in the prize affidavit. If these forms are not received by this date, prize money will be forfeited.

Additional prizes may be presented by partners, sponsors, or select vendors, and all such prizes are also subject to applicable taxes, withholding, compliance with, and agreement to CrossFit’s prize affidavit. It is the athlete’s sole responsibility to comply with paying any and all applicable taxes in connection with any prizes, regardless of whether such a prize is cash. Prize money will be released only once drug test results have been confirmed. Athletes can expect the drug testing process to take between six and eight weeks at a minimum, depending on results.

Equipment Policy
7.01 – GENERAL
Proper workout attire, including shoes, is required for all workouts/events. No attire shall interfere with a judge’s ability to determine whether the required movement standards and expectations for range of motion are being met. No attire shall be worn with the intent to shorten or reduce the range of motion of any movement.

Subject to CrossFit’s prior approval, chalk, weight belts, non-tacky gloves, gymnastics wraps, hand tape, neoprene joint sleeves, and common fitness wear may be allowed during competition. In general, support gear that improves safety and/or comfort but does not confer advantage is allowed. Should the event call for a pull-up bar, athletes may wrap tape around the pull-up bar or wear hand protection (gymnastics-style grips, gloves, etc.), but they may not tape the bar and wear hand protection.

Athletes may not use protective gear in a manner that provides additional grip assistance or weight support, e.g., wrapping the grip completely around the pull-up bar during pull-ups.

Common support attire that is not allowed includes but is not limited to knee or elbow wraps, gymnastics dowel grips, and tacky non-chalk substances used to enhance grip. Gymnastics grips may only be used during movements where the athlete is hanging from a pull-up bar or gymnastics rings.

Unless otherwise stated, athletes may not receive assistance moving or placing equipment. Athletes who receive outside assistance to manage or place equipment during the workout/event may face penalty or disqualification.

Once athletes (individual, age group, or team) enter the competition floor, they may not receive any outside material assistance (water, tape, chalk, gloves, etc.) from spectators or coaches.

7.02 – LIVE COMPETITION – INSPECTION OF PERSONAL ATTIRE
IIt is the athlete’s responsibility at an on-site competition to only compete with approved personal attire. If an athlete is unsure whether their attire is approved or whether they have a unique piece of personal attire that is not covered in the Rulebook, they are required to ask event staff on-site for approval before taking the competition floor. Wearing unapproved attire or supporting equipment and/or using approved attire/supporting equipment in a manner that confers unique advantage on the competition floor may result in penalty or disqualification.

In general, attire is allowed that improves safety and/or comfort but does not confer advantage. No grip assistance or weight support may be derived from any device worn. No attire shall interfere with a judge’s ability to determine whether the required movement standards and expectations for range of motion are being met. No attire shall be worn with the intent to shorten or reduce the range of motion of any movement.

Any time before the close of competition, if an athlete is found to have used personal attire that is not permitted, depending on the severity of the offense, the athlete may be warned, penalty may be issued, or they may be disqualified from competition.

Athletes should only enter the competition floor with the personal equipment or attire that is necessary for that specific event. Prior to taking the competition floor, athletes may be notified by competition staff to only bring certain items onto the floor. If athletes are permitted to bring items onto the floor, they must be kept within their own competition lane. Items deemed to be excessive for an event may include extra shoes, water bottles, extra clothing items, etc. Failing to abide by guidelines set forth by competition staff may lead to a warning, penalty issued, or disqualification from competition.

7.03 – LIVE COMPETITION – SPECIFIC ATTIRE REQUIREMENTS
There are specific attire requirements set forth by CrossFit that all athletes are required to follow during a live competition. Failure to abide by these requirements may result in a warning, penalty issued, or disqualification. Specific equipment may be provided by CrossFit. In these instances, only the provided equipment in the specific category may be worn. Any equipment that is not provided by CrossFit must meet the following specifications.

Shoes:

Athletes must wear sport footwear while competing; slippers, socks, and open-toed shoes are not permitted. An exception may be made for swim tests or other specific tests.
No part of any shoe’s underside, or sole, shall be higher than 2 inches or 5 cm.
Shoes cannot be altered from their original manufactured state to increase the sole’s height.
Athletes may only bring one pair of shoes onto the competition floor for each test unless otherwise stated.
Support belt:

The main body of the belt shall be made of non-stretch materials.
The maximum belt width is 5 inches or 13 cm, while the maximum belt thickness is ½ inch or 13 mm along the main length.
Only one belt, constructed primarily of a single material, may be worn during an event
Knee and elbow support:

Sleeves worn on the knees and/or elbows must conform to the following specifications:

The sleeves must be constructed entirely of a single ply of neoprene or synthetic rubber or predominantly of a single ply of neoprene or synthetic rubber plus a non-supportive single layer of fabric over the neoprene.
The entire construction of the sleeves may not be such as to provide any appreciable support or rebound to the lifter’s knees. Knees sleeves that otherwise meet the approved criteria, but are found to offer advantage may be denied at CrossFit’s discretion.
The sleeves may not be worn in a manner that provides appreciable rebound (e.g., worn below the knee and folded over).
Knee and elbow sleeves shall not have any additional strapping, velcro, drawstrings, padding, or similar supportive devices in or on them.
Knee and elbow sleeves shall be of a maximum thickness of ¼ inch or 7 mm and a maximum length of 12 inches or 30 cm.
Only one sleeve is permitted per knee and per elbow.
Knee and elbow wraps of any kind are not permitted.
Wrist wraps:

Wrist wraps shall not exceed 40 inches or 1 meter in length and 3¼ inches or 8 cm in width.
Any sleeves and Velcro patches/tabs for securing must be incorporated within the lengths listed above.
Standard sweatbands of any width may be worn if they do not provide support.
​​Hand protection:

Athletes may cover their hands and fingers in tape, gymnastics grips, or gloves for the purpose of protecting their hands from tearing, but these resources may not be used in a manner that provides additional grip assistance (e.g., wrapping gymnastics grips around a pull-up bar or barbell).
The gripping surface of the hand may not be tacky or sticky. Grips must be made of a material that provides hand protection but not additional grip advantage.
Gymnastics grips shall be made of a material that maintains a consistent thickness.
The grips cannot contain a dowel and the grip cannot be sewn into a fold.
When the gymnastics grip is fastened to the wrist and fully extended, the length of the grip may not exceed the athlete’s fingertips.
Gymnastics grips may only be used during movements where the athlete is hanging from a pull-up bar or gymnastics rings.
Lifting straps or lifting hooks are not permitted.
Tape worn on the fingers and thumbs must not protrude in front of the fingertips.
Adhesives and lubricants:

The use of chalk (magnesium carbonate) is permitted on the body and attire. Any other adhesive products that would be used in place of chalk are prohibited. This includes but is not limited to resin, rosin, sandpaper, tacky, liquid chalk, liquid adhesives, and waxes.
The use of oil, grease, baby powder, talcum, waxes, cream, or other lubricants on the body or personal attire is not allowed if it may come in contact with any competition equipment. For example, no lubricants can be present on the thighs while weightlifting. If lubricants are used for the purpose of reducing chafing — for example, inside the shoes or underwear — then such lubrication is permitted.
The use of any form of adhesive or lubricant on the footwear is forbidden. This applies to any built-in adhesive, such as sandpaper. Athletes may not add tape or cloth to the heels of their shoes for handstand push-ups.
Swimwear:

Swimwear is to be made of only textile fabrics that are woven, knitted, or braided.
Total material thickness must not exceed 0.8 mm, and suits must be permeable and non-buoyant.
Supportive suits:

Lifting suits or power briefs that provide support and are often known as “equipped powerlifting suits” may not be used, including multi-ply neoprene, denim products, or other such materials.
Any garment consisting of rubberized or similar stretch material shall not be worn under the clothing if its intent is to provide support or bounce.
Electronic devices:

Music players and headphones may not be worn.
Devices such as mobile phones, tablets, or other portable media devices may not be brought to the competition floor.
Watches and heart-rate monitors are permitted.
Drug Testing Policy
8.01 – DRUG TESTING
The CrossFit Games Drug Testing Policy shall apply to all athletes registered for CrossFit Games events.

Drug testing is required for any individual athlete or team to advance to the Games or collect prizes. Failure to comply with CrossFit’s instructions and the instructions of the collection agent(s) at any time during the drug-testing process may result in the athlete, team, or members of the team forfeiting a prize and being disqualified from the competition and future competition(s).

Athletes who compete in any CrossFit Games event or accept an invitation to compete at the Games are subject to drug testing. Athletes may be selected for drug testing at a live CrossFit Games event and will be notified by event staff and escorted to the drug-testing area for the administration of the drug test.

Athletes included in CrossFit’s Registered Athlete Testing Pool are subject to drug testing at any time, with no expiration, until they are removed from the Testing Pool by CrossFit. Please see the CrossFit Games Drug Testing Policy for more details (https://games.crossfit.com/drug-policy). Athletes must abide by CrossFit’s decisions, which are final and binding in all respects.



gender CLASSIFICATION Policy
9.01 – Gender Classification Policy [NEW]
9.02 – Participation in all stages of competition
9.03 – Challenges to an athlete’s gender classification
9.04 – Policy clarifications

9.01 – GENDER CLASSIFICATION POLICY [NEW]
All athletes are welcome to participate in CrossFit Games events. However, to maintain fairness and the integrity of the competition, athletes must compete in the division corresponding to their gender assigned at birth.

9.02 – PARTICIPATION IN ALL STAGES OF COMPETITION
Athletes must register and compete in the gender division corresponding to their gender assigned at birth for all stages of the CrossFit Games, including the Open, Community Cup, Semifinals, In-Person Qualifying Events, and Finals.

This policy applies universally, and no exceptions will be granted based on legal, medical (except as noted below), or personal documentation that reflects a gender other than the athlete’s gender assigned at birth.

In the rare case of a disorder of sex development (DSD; also referred to as an intersex condition) determinations will be made on an individual basis and may include classification for competition in a division other than the gender assigned at birth.

9.03 – CHALLENGES TO AN ATHLETE’S GENDER CLASSIFICATION
Any athlete may confidentially challenge the eligibility of another athlete under this policy by submitting a written request to support@crossfitgames.com.

CrossFit reserves the right to request verification of an athlete’s gender assigned at birth to ensure compliance with this policy.
All challenges will be reviewed and resolved in a manner that prioritizes athlete privacy.
9.04 – POLICY CLARIFICATIONS
Athletes with questions or concerns about this policy should contact support@crossfitgames.com before Feb. 1, 2025, for guidance. CrossFit will finalize eligibility determinations and communicate decisions by Feb. 28, 2025.



Appendices
Appendix A: Sportsmanship
Appendix B: Allegations of Misconduct
Appendix C: Competition Regions
Appendix D: Online/In-Affiliate Competition Guidelines[NEW]
Appendix E: Public Review Guidelines – Individual & Age-Group Semifinals[NEW]
Appendix F: Prize Money Distributions[NEW]

APPENDIX A: SPORTSMANSHIP
As the performance arm of CrossFit, the CrossFit Games have the ability and responsibility to showcase our core values of diversity, equity, and inclusion.

The following values guide the way we think, communicate, and behave with the world around us.

Hard work: The effort we put into the Workout of the Day and our daily lives unites CrossFit athletes around the world.

Inspiration: Our performance at the local affiliate and on the competition floor unites the community and helps start others on their personal journeys to health, happiness, and performance.

Integrity: CrossFit athletes conduct themselves in a manner that reflects positively on the worldwide CrossFit community. They do the right thing when no one else is watching.

Tolerance: A CrossFit athlete does not use derogatory, abusive, or threatening speech directed toward any group of people, especially on the basis of race, color, weight, size, religion, national origin, marital or domestic-partnership status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, physical ability, or occupation.

All athletes agree to compete in a sportsmanlike manner. Unsportsmanlike behavior, such as arguing with an official or representative of CrossFit, taunting, heckling, fighting, or participating in any conduct that would bring disrepute upon CrossFit, the competition, other competitors, spectators, or event sponsors, as determined by CrossFit, in the eyes of the viewing public or the CrossFit community, may be grounds for penalty, suspension, disqualification, removal from the event, disqualification from future events, or legal action.

All athletes (“Athletes”) registered for the CrossFit Games (the “Event”) agree to maintain an atmosphere of mutual respect toward each other as well as those the Athlete may come in contact with while participating in the Event. Athletes will, at all times, conduct themselves with the highest ethical standards. Consistent with these expectations, all Athletes registered for the Event are required to:

Conduct all dealings, including but not limited to registration and participation in the Event, with honesty and fairness.
Respect the rights of Athletes, coaches, and volunteers by encouraging an environment that is fair, welcoming, and free from discrimination and harassment of any type.
Ensure that all transactions are handled honestly and recorded accurately, including but not limited to registration and submission of scores.
Recognize that even the appearance of misconduct and impropriety can be damaging to the reputation of yourself, your affiliate, other athletes, and CrossFit, and act accordingly.
All athletes agree to put forth suitable effort in every workout or test in every stage of competition. Deliberately doing less work or performing at a level below what one is capable of (referred to as “sandbagging”) in order to gain advantage in another workout/test or over another athlete or team is prohibited. Any athlete deemed by CrossFit to be sandbagging may be penalized or disqualified from competition as CrossFit sees fit in its sole discretion.

Any action that prevents another athlete from having a fair opportunity to compete (e.g., abuse or alteration of equipment, or refusal to follow instructions), that interferes with athlete and judge communication (e.g., external noise devices, bull horns, air horns), or that is generally disruptive to the event is not allowed.

Athletes will be held accountable for the behavior of their coaches, teammates, team managers, supporters, and guests. If the conduct of any member of such a group or groups is deemed by CrossFit to be unsportsmanlike or disruptive to the competition, then the coach, teammate, supporter, guest, or athlete is subject to the same disciplinary actions.

This is not an exhaustive list and is meant as a guide for athletes, coaches, and other attendees. This is not intended as a limitation on CrossFit’s rights to operate the CrossFit Games in any manner it sees fit. CrossFit reserves the right to terminate the participation of any athlete, coach, staff, volunteer, judge, visitor, guest, supporter, teammate and/or spectator attending or viewing any sponsored, sanctioned, or supported CrossFit event at any time, with no further obligation or duty to such individual.

All information provided, either in registration submissions, video submissions, scores, times, reps, or rounds completed, must be the complete truth. A lack of integrity, or any actions that evince an intent to cheat or circumvent the rules or intent of the rules of the CrossFit Games, including lying (as one example), will result in disqualification.

CrossFit has and may delegate to an on-site director the absolute authority on any final ruling, including, without limitation, disqualification of an athlete, removal of spectator(s), or dismissal of any attendee.

APPENDIX B: ALLEGATIONS OF MISCONDUCT
An athlete may contact support@crossfitgames.com to file an investigation into unfair practices or Rulebook violations by athletes, teams, or judges.

APPENDIX C: COMPETITION REGIONS
Competition Region	Country
Africa	Algeria
Africa	Angola
Africa	Benin
Africa	Botswana
Africa	Burkina Faso
Africa	Burundi
Africa	Cameroon
Africa	Cape Verde
Africa	Central African Republic
Africa	Chad
Africa	Comoros
Africa	Congo, The Democratic Republic of the
Africa	Congo, The Republic of
Africa	Côte d’Ivoire
Africa	Djibouti
Africa	Egypt
Africa	Equatorial Guinea
Africa	Eritrea
Africa	Ethiopia
Africa	Gabon
Africa	Gambia
Africa	Ghana
Africa	Guinea
Africa	Guinea-Bissau
Africa	Kenya
Africa	Lesotho
Africa	Liberia
Africa	Libya
Africa	Madagascar
Africa	Malawi
Africa	Mali
Africa	Mauritania
Africa	Mauritius
Africa	Morocco
Africa	Mozambique
Africa	Namibia
Africa	Niger
Africa	Nigeria
Africa	Rwanda
Africa	Sao Tome and Principe
Africa	Senegal
Africa	Seychelles
Africa	Sierra Leone
Africa	Somalia
Africa	South Africa
Africa	South Sudan
Africa	Sudan
Africa	Swaziland
Africa	Tanzania
Africa	Togo
Africa	Tunisia
Africa	Uganda
Africa	Western Sahara
Africa	Zambia
Africa	Zimbabwe
Asia	Afghanistan
Asia	Bahrain
Asia	Bangladesh
Asia	Bhutan
Asia	Brunei Darussalam
Asia	Cambodia
Asia	China
Asia	Hong Kong
Asia	India
Asia	Indonesia
Asia	Iran
Asia	Iraq
Asia	Israel
Asia	Japan
Asia	Jordan
Asia	Kazakhstan
Asia	Korea, DPRK
Asia	Korea, Republic of
Asia	Kuwait
Asia	Kyrgyzstan
Asia	Laos
Asia	Lebanon
Asia	Macao
Asia	Malaysia
Asia	Maldives
Asia	Mongolia
Asia	Myanmar
Asia	Nepal
Asia	Oman
Asia	Pakistan
Asia	Palestinian Territory
Asia	Philippines
Asia	Qatar
Asia	Russian Federation
Asia	Saudi Arabia
Asia	Singapore
Asia	Sri Lanka
Asia	Syrian Arab Republic
Asia	Taiwan
Asia	Tajikistan
Asia	Thailand
Asia	Timor-Leste
Asia	Turkey
Asia	Turkmenistan
Asia	United Arab Emirates
Asia	Uzbekistan
Asia	Viet Nam
Asia	Yemen
Europe	Åland Islands
Europe	Albania
Europe	Andorra
Europe	Anguilla
Europe	Armenia
Europe	Aruba
Europe	Austria
Europe	Azerbaijan
Europe	Belarus
Europe	Belgium
Europe	Bermuda
Europe	Bonaire
Europe	Bosnia and Herzegovina
Europe	Bouvet Island
Europe	British Indian Ocean Territory
Europe	Bulgaria
Europe	Cayman Islands
Europe	Croatia
Europe	Curaçao
Europe	Cyprus
Europe	Czech Republic
Europe	Denmark
Europe	Estonia
Europe	Falkland Islands
Europe	Faroe Islands
Europe	Finland
Europe	France
Europe	French Guiana
Europe	French Polynesia
Europe	French Southern Territories
Europe	Georgia
Europe	Germany
Europe	Gibraltar
Europe	Greece
Europe	Greenland
Europe	Guadeloupe
Europe	Guernsey
Europe	Holy See – Vatican
Europe	Hungary
Europe	Iceland
Europe	Ireland
Europe	Isle of Man
Europe	Italy
Europe	Jersey
Europe	Kosovo
Europe	Latvia
Europe	Liechtenstein
Europe	Lithuania
Europe	Luxembourg
Europe	Macedonia
Europe	Malta
Europe	Martinique
Europe	Mayotte
Europe	Moldova
Europe	Monaco
Europe	Montenegro
Europe	Montserrat
Europe	Netherlands
Europe	New Caledonia
Europe	Norway
Europe	Pitcairn
Europe	Poland
Europe	Portugal
Europe	Réunion
Europe	Romania
Europe	S. Georgia-S. Sandwich Islands
Europe	Saint Barthélemy
Europe	Saint Helena
Europe	Saint Martin, French
Europe	Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Europe	San Marino
Europe	Serbia
Europe	Sint Maarten
Europe	Slovakia
Europe	Slovenia
Europe	Spain
Europe	Svalbard and Jan Mayen
Europe	Sweden
Europe	Switzerland
Europe	Turks and Caicos Islands
Europe	Ukraine
Europe	United Kingdom
Europe	Virgin Islands, British
Europe	Wallis and Futuna
North America East	Alabama
North America East	Antigua and Barbuda
North America East	Bahamas
North America East	Barbados
North America East	Belize
North America East	Connecticut
North America East	Costa Rica
North America East	Cuba
North America East	Delaware
North America East	Dominica
North America East	Dominican Republic
North America East	El Salvador
North America East	Florida
North America East	Georgia
North America East	Grenada
North America East	Guam
North America East	Guatemala
North America East	Haiti
North America East	Honduras
North America East	Illinois
North America East	Indiana
North America East	Jamaica
North America East	Kentucky
North America East	Maine
North America East	Maryland
North America East	Massachusetts
North America East	Michigan
North America East	New Brunswick
North America East	New Hampshire
North America East	New Jersey
North America East	New York
North America East	Newfoundland and Labrador
North America East	Nicaragua
North America East	North Carolina
North America East	Northern Mariana Islands
North America East	Nova Scotia
North America East	Ohio
North America East	Ontario
North America East	Panama
North America East	Pennsylvania
North America East	Prince Edward Island
North America East	Puerto Rico
North America East	Quebec
North America East	Rhode Island
North America East	Saint Kitts and Nevis
North America East	Saint Lucia
North America East	Saint Vincent/Grenadines
North America East	South Carolina
North America East	Tennessee
North America East	Trinidad and Tobago
North America East	US Minor Outlying Islands
North America East	Vermont
North America East	Virgin Islands, US
North America East	Virginia
North America East	West Virginia
North America East	Wisconsin
North America West	Alaska
North America West	Alberta
North America West	American Samoa
North America West	Arizona
North America West	Arkansas
North America West	British Columbia
North America West	California
North America West	Colorado
North America West	Hawaii
North America West	Idaho
North America West	Iowa
North America West	Kansas
North America West	Louisiana
North America West	Manitoba
North America West	Mexico
North America West	Minnesota
North America West	Mississippi
North America West	Missouri
North America West	Montana
North America West	Nebraska
North America West	Nevada
North America West	New Mexico
North America West	North Dakota
North America West	Northwest Territories
North America West	Nunavut
North America West	Oklahoma
North America West	Oregon
North America West	Saskatchewan
North America West	South Dakota
North America West	Texas
North America West	Utah
North America West	Washington
North America West	Wyoming
North America West	Yukon
Oceania	Antarctica
Oceania	Australia
Oceania	Christmas Island
Oceania	Cocos and Keeling Islands
Oceania	Cook Islands
Oceania	Fiji
Oceania	Heard-McDonald Islands
Oceania	Kiribati
Oceania	Marshall Islands
Oceania	Micronesia
Oceania	Nauru
Oceania	New Zealand
Oceania	Niue
Oceania	Norfolk Island
Oceania	Palau
Oceania	Papua New Guinea
Oceania	Samoa
Oceania	Solomon Islands
Oceania	Tokelau
Oceania	Tonga
Oceania	Tuvalu
Oceania	Vanuatu
South America	Argentina
South America	Bolivia
South America	Brazil
South America	Chile
South America	Colombia
South America	Ecuador
South America	Guyana
South America	Paraguay
South America	Peru
South America	Suriname
South America	Uruguay
South America	Venezuela
APPENDIX D: ONLINE/IN-AFFILIATE COMPETITION GUIDELINES [NEW]
Setup Considerations:
Be sure the athlete has adequate space to safely complete all movements. Clear the area of all extra equipment, people, or other obstructions.
Equipment used in the vicinity of permanent structures such as pull-up rigs, gymnastics rings, climbing ropes, and handstand push-up stations must be placed a minimum of 5 feet apart.
Unless otherwise stated, athletes may not receive assistance with their equipment.
Video Submission Requirements:
Videos must be submitted via a YouTube URL/link.

All YouTube videos must follow these guidelines:

The video must be original content created by the athlete.
The athlete must own all rights to (or have permission to use) the content of the video, including any music used.
The video must be uploaded to YouTube and set to “public.”
Video must comply with YouTube’s Community Guidelines and Terms of Service.
By submitting the video, the athlete grants CrossFit, LLC a worldwide, royalty-free, perpetual license to use, reproduce, distribute, and display the video for the purposes of scoring the Open and any related promotions.
The athlete agrees to indemnify and hold harmless CrossFit, LLC from any claims, damages, or liabilities brought by third parties arising from the athlete’s video submission.
Violating any of the following requirements may result in a 0 score. Athletes must:

Show any required weights used are accurate and correct.
Follow the correct rep scheme or order of movements.
Ensure correct measurements of any part of the setup are shown clearly.
Ensure submitted videos are unedited and not altered in any way.
If provided, athletes must use the camera placement identified in the floor plan.
Semifinal Athletes MUST have the Floor Judge and Head Judge introduce themselves on camera prior to the workout
Penalties:
If the performance warrants penalty, the penalty will be applied in accordance with the scripted guidelines found in each workout’s movement standards document (see section 2.12 for more details).

Video Submission Best Practices:
The camera should capture a ¾ view of the athlete during all movements.
Place the camera at least 3’ (90 cm) off the ground. Avoid placing the camera low to the ground.
A clock or timer that counts up from 0 should be visible throughout the test.
Videos shot with a fisheye (or similar) lens or any effects may be rejected.
Make sure lighting or glare does not obstruct the view of the athlete, equipment, or workout area.
Ensure the judge does not obstruct the view of the athlete.
When possible, always execute the movements facing the camera.
Athletes should watch their videos before submitting.
Weight Conversions:
The following weight conversions will be used for all online competitions. This is not an exhaustive list of all weights that may be used in a competition. If there is a weight used that is not listed below, it will be referred to in the movement standards and scorecard description documents.

Barbell Conversions
Pounds (LB)	Kilograms (KG)
35 lb.	15 kg
45 lb.	20 kg


Medicine Ball Conversions
Pounds (LB)	Kilograms (KG)
10 lb	4 kg
14 lb.	6 kg
20 lb.	9 kg


Dumbbell Conversions
Pounds (LB)	Kilograms (KG)
10 lb.	5 kg
20 lb.	10 kg
35 lb.	15 kg
50 lb.	22.5 kg
70 lb.	32.5 kg


Kettlebell Conversions
Pounds (LB)	Kilograms (KG)
26 lb.	12 kg
35 lb.	16 kg
53 lb.	24 kg
70 lb.	32 kg


Common Barbell Load Conversions
Pounds (LB)	Kilograms (KG)
55 lb.	25 kg
65 lb.	29 kg
75 lb.	34 kg
85 lb.	38 kg
95 lb.	43 kg
100 lb.	45 kg
105 lb.	47 kg
115 lb.	52 kg
125 lb.	56 kg
135 lb.	61 kg
145 lb.	66 kg
155 lb.	70 kg
165 lb.	75 kg
175 lb.	79 kg
185 lb.	83 kg
195 lb.	88 kg
205 lb.	93 kg
215 lb.	98 kg
225 lb.	102 kg
275 lb.	125 kg
315 lb.	143 kg
APPENDIX E: PUBLIC REVIEW GUIDELINES – INDIVIDUAL & AGE-GROUP SEMIFINALS [NEW]
As part of the online Semifinal review process for the Individual and Age-Group divisions, videos of all workout performances will be made public on the leaderboard. Anyone who has met the requirements will be able to view the videos and cast a vote on the athlete’s performance. At the end of the review period, any videos that have received a significant number of “needs review” votes will be reviewed by CrossFit’s internal review team to give a final ruling on the performance. This may result in a penalty assessed to the athlete. Below is additional information regarding the public review process.



Requirements:
If a person would like to review public videos they will need the following:

Completed the 2025 Judges Course
Review Options:
The following at the three options that will be available for the public to vote on:

Good Video: Submission should be accepted without modification.
Needs Review: Submission should be assessed a penalty due to issues with movement standards, incorrect loading, measurements, or rep count. Or the video is edited in any way.
Unviewable: Video will not play, or it is not the athlete completing the correct workout.
Timeline:
The Semifinal competitions will conclude on Sunday at 5 p.m. PT. Shortly following the close of competition, the leaderboard will be live, all workout videos will be public, and the public review period will begin. The public review will last until the following Friday at 5 p.m. PT.

CrossFit’s internal review team will then look at the number of votes for each video. If a video has a significant number of “needs review” votes it may be reviewed. Any videos that have a significant number of “good video” votes may remain valid on the leaderboard with no review from CrossFit. If an individual video receives no votes, their submission may also be automatically validated and remain on the leaderboard.

If a video is reviewed by CrossFit, and a penalty or scoring adjustment is issued, the athlete will be notified via email.

Following CrossFit’s assessment of any video reviews, the leaderboard will be final no later than Monday, April 21, 2025 (age-group) and Monday, May 19, 2025 (individuals).



CrossFit Games Internal Review:
CrossFit Games will provide scripted criteria for penalties applied after video review for each workout in the corresponding workout documents. All penalty criteria will be made public prior to the competition beginning. In the event of a penalty, an adjustment to the athlete’s score will be made in the following manner:

No-Reps: CrossFit Games will assign specific penalties for each movement of each workout, found in the workout documents. For example, each “no-rep” of a movement may be scripted as a 5-second penalty. In this instance, the athlete’s time will be adjusted based on the number of no-reps x 5 seconds. Therefore, 5 no-reps would result in an increase of 25 seconds to the athlete’s score (5 no-reps x 5 seconds each).

False Starts/Wrong Starting Position: Athletes starting in the incorrect position OR who begin the workout before the “GO” signal will be issued a 10-second penalty.

Movements Obscured or Performed Out of Frame:

If the movements are partially visible (e.g., they can be identified as the correct movement) but range of motion cannot be verified, those reps will be treated as “no-reps.”
If the movements are unable to be verified at all (e.g., the athlete is completely out of frame) athletes will be given credit only for all work completed prior to the unverifiable reps.
Incorrect Setup: Athletes who do not show the correct setup OR use the incorrect setup, may receive a 0 score. Correct setup includes:

Correct loading (e.g., the total weight of a barbell)
Correct measurements (e.g., height of a rope climb or wall-ball shot)
Correct camera placement and/or athlete/equipment orientation
Judges Do Not Have the Correct Credentials: The Head Judge and Floor Judge used during competition must hold a current Level 1 Certificate (or higher) AND have completed the Advanced Judges Course. A 0 score may be given if the judges do not hold these credentials.

If an athlete receives penalties in multiple areas they will be combined and the athlete’s score will be adjusted to reflect the total penalty.

In the event a penalty adjusts the athlete’s score beyond the timecap, the athlete’s score will be adjusted to match the work completed within the timecap after the penalty is applied.

For example, the time cap for the workout Fran (90 total reps) is 6 minutes. The athlete submitted a score of 5 minutes, 30 seconds, and received a penalty of 60 seconds — 5:30 + 60 seconds = 6:30 — 30 seconds over the time cap. All work performed by the athlete in their final 30 seconds will be removed from their score.

This score on the leaderboard will be displayed as a time-capped score with reps removed from the total possible reps.  In this example, 9 pull-ups were performed in the final 30 seconds, making the new score 81 (of a possible 90) repetitions.

In the event of a penalty during a workout scored by total reps completed, any no-reps will be removed from the athlete’s score. If a false start is assessed in this scenario, any repetitions performed in the final 10 seconds of the workout will be removed.

It is ultimately the athlete’s responsibility to ensure:

The competition is completed at a registered CrossFit affiliate.
The Head Judge and Floor Judge hold the required credentials.
The workouts are completed as described in the corresponding workout descriptions document
Any unviewable video is resubmitted BEFORE the Friday, 5 p.m. PT deadline following the close of competition.
APPENDIX F: PRIZE MONEY DISTRIBUTIONS [NEW]
50% of each 2025 Open registration will fund the 2025 CrossFit Games Season prize purse.

Of that 50%, the prize purse for the 2025 season will be allocated as follows:

Open – Affiliate Prizes: 20% (split between participation and performance prizes)
Open – Top Individual Performers: 5%
Individual Semifinals: 3%
Individual Games: 49%
Affiliate Cup Games (teams): 10%
Masters: 10%
Adaptive: 3%


Using 300,000 registrants as an example, the total prize purse available for the season would be $3,000,000 (USD).
In this example, the 2025 CrossFit Games Season prize purse for each stage would look like:


OPEN (Assuming 300,000 registrants)
Affiliate Open Prizes* = $600,000

Participation Prizes: 120 affiliates receive $2,500 Rogue Gift Card

Region	Number of Winning Affiliates
North America East	18
Europe	17
North America West	17
Oceania	17
South America	17
Asia	17
Africa	17


Performance Prizes: 120 affiliates receive $2,500 Rogue Gift Card

Region	Number of winning affiliates
North America East	18
Europe	17
North America West	17
Oceania	17
South America	17
Asia	17
Africa	17


*As the number of registrations increases, the number of available prizes will increase, allocating one additional prize per region in the order outlined in the tables above. After each region has been awarded an additional prize, the allocation will restart at the top of the table.
Individual Open Prizes = $150,000 (Assuming 300,000 Open registrants)

Weekly Podium Finishers = $75,000.

The prize money is divided evenly by each of the three weeks ($25,000).

Each week the top three Men and Women can receive:

25.1 / 25.2 / 25.3	$25,000
1st 	$6,250
2nd	$3,750
3rd 	$2,500


Overall Open Podium Finishers = $75,000

Top three Men and Women overall can receive:

1st	$18,750
2nd 	$11,250
3rd 	$7,500


INDIVIDUAL SEMIFINALS = $90,000 (Assuming 300,000 Open registrants)
Every qualifying man and woman can receive:

1st	$11,250
2nd	$5,400
3rd	$4,950
4th	$4,500
5th	$4,050
6th	$3,600
7th	$3,150
8th	$2,700
9th	$2,250
10th	$1,800
11th	$1,350


CROSSFIT GAMES = $1,770,000 TOTAL (Assuming 300,000 Open registrants)
Individuals = $1,470,000

The following Men and Women can receive:

1st	$367,500
2nd	$73,500
3rd	$58,800
4th	$51,450
5th	$25,725
6th	$19,845
7th	$18,375
8th	$16,170
9th	$15,435
10th	$14,700
11th	$12,495
12th	$11,025
13th	$8,820
14th	$8,085
15th	$7,350
16th	$6,615
17th	$5,880
18th	$5,145
19th	$4,410
20th	$3,675


Teams = $300,000

1st	$90,000
2nd	$60,000
3rd	$45,000
4th	$21,000
5th	$15,000
6th	$10,500
7th	$8,100
8th	$7,500
9th	$6,600
10th	$6,000
11th	$5,400
12th	$4,500
13th	$3,600
14th	$3,300
15th	$3,000
16th	$2,700
17th	$2,400
18th	$2,100
19th	$1,800
20th	$1,500


DIVISIONAL GAMES = $390,000 TOTAL (Assuming 300,000 Open registrants)
Masters = $300,000
Adaptive = $90,000
Payouts per placement for each division of the Masters and Adaptive competitions will be released prior to the start of each respective competition.

In the event that the total number of qualifying athletes (and resultant payscale) changes due to unforeseen circumstances, CrossFit will clearly communicate such changes prior to the start of the relevant season stage.